---
layout: threat_actor
title: "Orangeworm"
aliases: ["Orangeworm"]
description: "Orangeworm is a group that has targeted organizations in the healthcare sector in the United States, Europe, and Asia since at least 2015, likely for the purpose of corporate espionage.(Citation: Syman"
permalink: /apt0071/
external_id: "G0071"
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
---

## Introduction
Orangeworm is a group that has targeted organizations in the healthcare sector in the United States, Europe, and Asia since at least 2015, likely for the purpose of corporate espionage.(Citation: Symantec Orangeworm April 2018) Reverse engineering of Kwampirs, directly associated with Orangeworm activity, indicates significant functional and development overlaps with Shamoon.(Citation: Cylera Kwampirs 2022)

## Activities and Tactics
*Information pending cataloguing.*

### Notable Campaigns
*Information pending cataloguing.*

### Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs)
*Information pending cataloguing.*

## Notable Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
*This section is pending cataloguing. Check upstream sources for current IOCs.*

### IP Addresses
*Pending*

### File Hashes
*Pending*

### Domains
*Pending*

## Malware and Tools
*Information pending cataloguing.*

## Attribution and Evidence
*Information pending cataloguing.*

## References
[1] [mitre-attack](https://attack.mitre.org/groups/G0071)
[3] [Cylera Kwampirs 2022](https://resources.cylera.com/hubfs/Cylera%20Labs/Cylera%20Labs%20Kwampirs%20Shamoon%20Technical%20Report.pdf)
   Pablo Rincón Crespo. (2022, January). The link between Kwampirs (Orangeworm) and Shamoon APTs. Retrieved February 8, 2024.
[4] [Symantec Orangeworm April 2018](https://www.symantec.com/blogs/threat-intelligence/orangeworm-targets-healthcare-us-europe-asia)
   Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team. (2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May 8, 2018.

