---
layout: tactic
title: Lateral Movement
mitre_id: TA0109
permalink: "/tactics/TA0109/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0109
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
shortname: lateral-movement
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

The adversary is trying to move through your ICS environment.

Lateral Movement consists of techniques that adversaries use to enter and control remote systems on a network. These techniques abuse default credentials, known accounts, and vulnerable services, and may also leverage dual-homed devices and systems that reside on both the IT and OT networks. The adversary uses these techniques to pivot to their next point in the environment, positioning themselves to where they want to be or think they should be. Following through on their primary objective often requires Discovery of the network and Collection to develop awareness of unique ICS devices and processes, in order to find their target and subsequently gain access to it. Reaching this objective often involves pivoting through multiple systems, devices, and accounts. Adversaries may install their own remote tools to accomplish Lateral Movement or leverage default tools, programs, and manufacturer set or other legitimate credentials native to the network, which may be stealthier.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK technique references map to this tactic.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
