---
layout: tactic
title: Impair Process Control
mitre_id: TA0106
permalink: "/tactics/TA0106/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0106
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
shortname: impair-process-control
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

The adversary is trying to manipulate, disable, or damage physical control processes.

Impair Process Control consists of techniques that adversaries use to disrupt control logic and cause determinantal effects to processes being controlled in the target environment. Targets of interest may include active procedures or parameters that manipulate the physical environment. These techniques can also include prevention or manipulation of reporting elements and control logic. If an adversary has modified process functionality, then they may also obfuscate the results, which are often self-revealing in their impact on the outcome of a product or the environment. The direct physical control these techniques exert may also threaten the safety of operators and downstream users, which can prompt response mechanisms. Adversaries may follow up with or use Inhibit Response Function techniques in tandem, to assist with the successful abuse of control processes to result in Impact.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK technique references map to this tactic.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
