---
layout: tactic
title: Inhibit Response Function
mitre_id: TA0107
permalink: "/tactics/TA0107/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0107
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
shortname: inhibit-response-function
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

The adversary is trying to prevent your safety, protection, quality assurance, and operator intervention functions from responding to a failure, hazard, or unsafe state.

Inhibit Response Function consists of techniques that adversaries use to hinder the safeguards put in place for processes and products. This may involve the inhibition of safety, protection, quality assurance, or operator intervention functions to disrupt safeguards that aim to prevent the loss of life, destruction of equipment, and disruption of production. These techniques aim to actively deter and prevent expected alarms and responses that arise due to statuses in the ICS environment. Adversaries may modify or update system logic, or even outright prevent responses with a denial-of-service. They may result in the prevention, destruction, manipulation, or modification of programs, logic, devices, and communications. As prevention functions are generally dormant, reporting and processing functions can appear fine, but may have been altered to prevent failure responses in dangerous scenarios. Unlike Evasion, Inhibit Response Function techniques may be more intrusive, such as actively preventing responses to a known dangerous scenario. Adversaries may use these techniques to follow through with or provide cover for Impact techniques.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK technique references map to this tactic.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
