---
layout: mitigation
title: Active Directory Configuration
mitre_id: M1015
permalink: "/mitigations/M1015/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M1015
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Implement robust Active Directory (AD) configurations using group policies to secure user accounts, control access, and minimize the attack surface. AD configurations enable centralized control over account settings, logon policies, and permissions, reducing the risk of unauthorized access and lateral movement within the network. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Account Configuration:

- Implementation: Use domain accounts instead of local accounts to leverage AD’s centralized management, including group policies, auditing, and access control.
- Use Case: For IT staff managing shared resources, provision domain accounts that allow IT teams to log in centrally, reducing the risk of unmanaged, rogue local accounts on individual machines.

Interactive Logon Restrictions:

- Implementation: Configure group policies to restrict interactive logons (e.g., direct physical or RDP logons) for service accounts or privileged accounts that do not require such access.
- Use Case: Prevent service accounts, such as SQL Server accounts, from having interactive logon privileges. This reduces the risk of these accounts being leveraged for lateral movement if compromised.

Remote Desktop Settings:

- Implementation: Limit Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) access to specific, authorized accounts. Use group policies to enforce this, allowing only necessary users to establish RDP sessions.
- Use Case: On sensitive servers (e.g., domain controllers or financial databases), restrict RDP access to administrative accounts only, while all other users are denied access.

Dedicated Administrative Accounts:

- Implementation: Create domain-wide administrative accounts that are restricted from interactive logons, designed solely for high-level tasks (e.g., software installation, patching).
- Use Case: Create separate administrative accounts for different purposes, such as one set of accounts for installations and another for managing repository access. This limits ...

---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
