---
layout: mitigation
title: Encrypt Sensitive Information
mitre_id: M1041
permalink: "/mitigations/M1041/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M1041
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Protect sensitive information at rest, in transit, and during processing by using strong encryption algorithms. Encryption ensures the confidentiality and integrity of data, preventing unauthorized access or tampering. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Encrypt Data at Rest:

- Use Case: Use full-disk encryption or file-level encryption to secure sensitive data stored on devices.
- Implementation: Implement BitLocker for Windows systems or FileVault for macOS devices to encrypt hard drives.

Encrypt Data in Transit:

- Use Case: Use secure communication protocols (e.g., TLS, HTTPS) to encrypt sensitive data as it travels over networks.
- Implementation: Enable HTTPS for all web applications and configure mail servers to enforce STARTTLS for email encryption.

Encrypt Backups:

- Use Case: Ensure that backup data is encrypted both during storage and transfer to prevent unauthorized access.
- Implementation: Encrypt cloud backups using AES-256 before uploading them to Amazon S3 or Google Cloud.

Encrypt Application Secrets:

- Use Case: Store sensitive credentials, API keys, and configuration files in encrypted vaults.
- Implementation: Use HashiCorp Vault or AWS Secrets Manager to manage and encrypt secrets.

Database Encryption:

- Use Case: Enable Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) or column-level encryption in database management systems.
- Implementation: Use MySQL’s built-in encryption features to encrypt sensitive database fields such as social security numbers.

---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
