---
layout: mitigation
title: Do Not Mitigate
mitre_id: M1055
permalink: "/mitigations/M1055/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M1055
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

The Do Not Mitigate category highlights scenarios where attempting to mitigate a specific technique may inadvertently increase the organization's security risk or operational instability. This could happen due to the complexity of the system, the integration of critical processes, or the potential for introducing new vulnerabilities. Instead of direct mitigation, these situations may call for alternative strategies such as detection, monitoring, or response. The Do Not Mitigate category underscores the importance of assessing the trade-offs between mitigation efforts and overall system integrity. This mitigation can be implemented through the following measures:

Complex Systems Where Mitigation is Risky:

- Interpretation: In certain systems, direct mitigation could introduce new risks, especially if the system is highly interconnected or complex, such as in legacy industrial control systems (ICS). Patching or modifying these systems could result in unplanned downtime, disruptions, or even safety risks.
- Use Case: In a power grid control system, attempting to patch or disable certain services related to device communications might disrupt critical operations, leading to unintended service outages.

Risk of Reducing Security Coverage:

- Interpretation: In some cases, mitigating a technique might reduce the visibility or effectiveness of other security controls, limiting an organization’s ability to detect broader attacks.
- Use Case: Disabling script execution on a web server to mitigate potential PowerShell-based attacks could interfere with legitimate administrative operations that rely on scripting, while attackers may still find alternate ways to execute code.

Introduction of New Vulnerabilities:

- Interpretation: In highly sensitive or tightly controlled environments, implementing certain mitigations might create vulnerabilities in other parts of the system. For instance, disabling default security mechanisms in an attempt to resolve compatibility issues ...

---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
