---
layout: mitigation
title: Exploit Protection
mitre_id: M1050
permalink: "/mitigations/M1050/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/mitigations/M1050
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Deploy capabilities that detect, block, and mitigate conditions indicative of software exploits. These capabilities aim to prevent exploitation by addressing vulnerabilities, monitoring anomalous behaviors, and applying exploit-mitigation techniques to harden systems and software.

Operating System Exploit Protections:

- Use Case: Enable built-in exploit protection features provided by modern operating systems, such as Microsoft's Exploit Protection, which includes techniques like Data Execution Prevention (DEP), Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR), and Control Flow Guard (CFG).
- Implementation: Enforce DEP for all programs and enable ASLR to randomize memory addresses used by system and application processes. Windows: Configure Exploit Protection through the Windows Security app or deploy settings via Group Policy.
`ExploitProtectionExportSettings.exe -path "exploit_settings.xml"`
Linux: Use Kernel-level hardening features like SELinux, AppArmor, or GRSEC to enforce memory protections and prevent exploits.

Third-Party Endpoint Security:

- Use Case: Use endpoint protection tools with built-in exploit protection, such as enhanced memory protection, behavior monitoring, and real-time exploit detection.
- Implementation: Deploy tools to detect and block exploitation attempts targeting unpatched software.

Virtual Patching:
- Use Case: Use tools to implement virtual patches that mitigate vulnerabilities in applications or operating systems until official patches are applied.
- Implementation: Use Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) to block exploitation attempts on known vulnerabilities in outdated applications.

Hardening Application Configurations:

- Use Case: Disable risky application features that can be exploited, such as macros in Microsoft Office or JScript in Internet Explorer.
- Implementation: Configure Microsoft Office Group Policies to disable execution of macros in downloaded files.

---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
