---
layout: technique
title: Exploit Public-Facing Application
mitre_id: T0819
permalink: "/techniques/T0819/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0819
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
tactic_ids:
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: false
parent_mitre_id:
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may leverage weaknesses to exploit internet-facing
  software for initial access into an industrial network. Internet-facing software
  may be user applications, underlying networking implementations, an assets operating
  system, weak defenses, etc. Targets of this techniqu
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may leverage weaknesses to exploit internet-facing software for initial access into an industrial network. Internet-facing software may be user applications, underlying networking implementations, an assets operating system, weak defenses, etc. Targets of this technique may be intentionally exposed for the purpose of remote management and visibility.

An adversary may seek to target public-facing applications as they may provide direct access into an ICS environment or the ability to move into the ICS network. Publicly exposed applications may be found through online tools that scan the internet for open ports and services. Version numbers for the exposed application may provide adversaries an ability to target specific known vulnerabilities. Exposed control protocol or remote access ports found in Commonly Used Port may be of interest by adversaries.

### Mitigations

- [Vulnerability Scanning](/mitigations/M0916/) (`M0916`)
- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M0926/) (`M0926`)
- [Network Segmentation](/mitigations/M0930/) (`M0930`)
- [Application Isolation and Sandboxing](/mitigations/M0948/) (`M0948`)
- [Exploit Protection](/mitigations/M0950/) (`M0950`)
- [Update Software](/mitigations/M0951/) (`M0951`)

### Groups

- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
