---
layout: technique
title: Drive-by Compromise
mitre_id: T0817
permalink: "/techniques/T0817/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0817
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
tactic_ids:
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may gain access to a system during a drive-by compromise,
  when a user visits a website as part of a regular browsing session. With this technique,
  the user's web browser is targeted and exploited simply by visiting the compromised
  website. \n\nThe adversary may target a "
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may gain access to a system during a drive-by compromise, when a user visits a website as part of a regular browsing session. With this technique, the user's web browser is targeted and exploited simply by visiting the compromised website. 

The adversary may target a specific community, such as trusted third party suppliers or other industry specific groups, which often visit the target website. This kind of targeted attack relies on a common interest, and is known as a strategic web compromise or watering hole attack. 

The National Cyber Awareness System (NCAS) has issued a Technical Alert (TA) regarding Russian government cyber activity targeting critical infrastructure sectors. [Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency March 2018](https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/TA18-074A) Analysis by DHS and FBI has noted two distinct categories of victims in the Dragonfly campaign on the Western energy sector: staging and intended targets. The adversary targeted the less secure networks of staging targets, including trusted third-party suppliers and related peripheral organizations. Initial access to the intended targets used watering hole attacks to target process control, ICS, and critical infrastructure related trade publications and informational websites.

### Mitigations

- [Restrict Web-Based Content](/mitigations/M0921/) (`M0921`)
- [Application Isolation and Sandboxing](/mitigations/M0948/) (`M0948`)
- [Exploit Protection](/mitigations/M0950/) (`M0950`)
- [Update Software](/mitigations/M0951/) (`M0951`)

### Groups

- [ALLANITE](/allanite)
- [Dragonfly](/apt0035)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [TEMP.Veles](/apt0088)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
