---
layout: technique
title: Modify Alarm Settings
mitre_id: T0838
permalink: "/techniques/T0838/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0838
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
tactic_ids:
- TA0107
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may modify alarm settings to prevent alerts that
  may inform operators of their presence or to prevent responses to dangerous and
  unintended scenarios. Reporting messages are a standard part of data acquisition
  in control systems. Reporting messages are used as a way to
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may modify alarm settings to prevent alerts that may inform operators of their presence or to prevent responses to dangerous and unintended scenarios. Reporting messages are a standard part of data acquisition in control systems. Reporting messages are used as a way to transmit system state information and acknowledgements that specific actions have occurred. These messages provide vital information for the management of a physical process, and keep operators, engineers, and administrators aware of the state of system devices and physical processes. 

If an adversary is able to change the reporting settings, certain events could be prevented from being reported. This type of modification can also prevent operators or devices from performing actions to keep the system in a safe state. If critical reporting messages cannot trigger these actions then a Impact could occur. 

In ICS environments, the adversary may have to use Alarm Suppression or contend with multiple alarms and/or alarm propagation to achieve a specific goal to evade detection or prevent intended responses from occurring. [Jos Wetzels, Marina Krotofil 2019](https://troopers.de/downloads/troopers19/TROOPERS19_NGI_IoT_diet_poisoned_fruit.pdf) Methods of suppression often rely on modification of alarm settings, such as modifying in memory code to fixed values or tampering with assembly level instruction code. 

### Mitigations

- [Authorization Enforcement](/mitigations/M0800/) (`M0800`)
- [Access Management](/mitigations/M0801/) (`M0801`)
- [Human User Authentication](/mitigations/M0804/) (`M0804`)
- [Network Allowlists](/mitigations/M0807/) (`M0807`)
- [Software Process and Device Authentication](/mitigations/M0813/) (`M0813`)
- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M0918/) (`M0918`)
- [Network Segmentation](/mitigations/M0930/) (`M0930`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
