---
layout: technique
title: Transient Cyber Asset
mitre_id: T0864
permalink: "/techniques/T0864/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T0864
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
tactic_ids:
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may target devices that are transient across ICS
  networks and external networks. Normally, transient assets are brought into an environment
  by authorized personnel and do not remain in that environment on a permanent basis.
  (Citation: North American Electric Reliabilit'
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may target devices that are transient across ICS networks and external networks. Normally, transient assets are brought into an environment by authorized personnel and do not remain in that environment on a permanent basis. [North American Electric Reliability Corporation June 2021](https://www.nerc.com/pa/Stand/Glossary%20of%20Terms/Glossary_of_Terms.pdf) Transient assets are commonly needed to support management functions and may be more common in systems where a remotely managed asset is not feasible, external connections for remote access do not exist, or 3rd party contractor/vendor access is required. 

Adversaries may take advantage of transient assets in different ways. For instance, adversaries may target a transient asset when it is connected to an external network and then leverage its trusted access in another environment to launch an attack. They may also take advantage of installed applications and libraries that are used by legitimate end-users to interact with control system devices. 

Transient assets, in some cases, may not be deployed with a secure configuration leading to weaknesses that could allow an adversary to propagate malicious executable code, e.g., the transient asset may be infected by malware and when connected to an ICS environment the malware propagates onto other systems. 

### Mitigations

- [Network Segmentation](/mitigations/M0930/) (`M0930`)
- [Encrypt Sensitive Information](/mitigations/M0941/) (`M0941`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M0947/) (`M0947`)
- [Antivirus/Antimalware](/mitigations/M0949/) (`M0949`)
- [Update Software](/mitigations/M0951/) (`M0951`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
