---
layout: technique
title: SMB/Windows Admin Shares
mitre_id: T1021.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1021.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0109
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1021
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with a remote
  network share using Server Message Block (SMB). The adversary may then perform actions
  as the logged-on user.\n\nSMB is a file, printer, and serial port sharing protocol
  for Windows machines on the same network or domain. "
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

SMB is a file, printer, and serial port sharing protocol for Windows machines on the same network or domain. Adversaries may use SMB to interact with file shares, allowing them to move laterally throughout a network. Linux and macOS implementations of SMB typically use Samba.

Windows systems have hidden network shares that are accessible only to administrators and provide the ability for remote file copy and other administrative functions. Example network shares include `C$`, `ADMIN$`, and `IPC$`. Adversaries may use this technique in conjunction with administrator-level Valid Accounts to remotely access a networked system over SMB, [Wikipedia Server Message Block](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Message_Block) to interact with systems using remote procedure calls (RPCs), [TechNet RPC](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc787851.aspx) transfer files, and run transferred binaries through remote Execution. Example execution techniques that rely on authenticated sessions over SMB/RPC are Scheduled Task/Job, Service Execution, and Windows Management Instrumentation. Adversaries can also use NTLM hashes to access administrator shares on systems with Pass the Hash and certain configuration and patch levels. [Microsoft Admin Shares](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/314984) 

### Mitigations

- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Password Policies](/mitigations/M1027/) (`M1027`)
- [Limit Access to Resource Over Network](/mitigations/M1035/) (`M1035`)
- [Filter Network Traffic](/mitigations/M1037/) (`M1037`)

### Groups

- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT3](/apt0022)
- [APT32](/apt32)
- [APT39](/apt0087)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Aquatic Panda](/apt0143)
- [BlackByte](/apt1043)
- [Blue Mockingbird](/apt0108)
- [Chimera](/apt0114)
- [Cinnamon Tempest](/apt1021)
- [Deep Panda](/apt0009)
- [FIN13](/apt1016)
- [FIN8](/apt0061)
- [Fox Kitten](/apt0117)
- [Ke3chang](/apt0004)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [Moses Staff](/apt1009)
- [Orangeworm](/apt0071)
- [Play](/play)
- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)
- [Storm-1811](/apt1046)
- [Threat Group-1314](/apt0028)
- [ToddyCat](/apt1022)
- [Turla](/apt0010)
- [Velvet Ant](/apt1047)
- [Wizard Spider](/wizard-spider)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
