---
layout: technique
title: Encrypted/Encoded File
mitre_id: T1027.013
permalink: "/techniques/T1027.013/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/013
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1027
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may encrypt or encode files to obfuscate strings,
  bytes, and other specific patterns to impede detection. Encrypting and/or encoding
  file content aims to conceal malicious artifacts within a file used in an intrusion.
  Many other techniques, such as Software Packing, St
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may encrypt or encode files to obfuscate strings, bytes, and other specific patterns to impede detection. Encrypting and/or encoding file content aims to conceal malicious artifacts within a file used in an intrusion. Many other techniques, such as Software Packing, Steganography, and Embedded Payloads, share this same broad objective. Encrypting and/or encoding files could lead to a lapse in detection of static signatures, only for this malicious content to be revealed (i.e., Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information) at the time of execution/use.

This type of file obfuscation can be applied to many file artifacts present on victim hosts, such as malware log/configuration and payload files. [File obfuscation](https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/shlayer-malvertising-campaigns-still-using-flash-update-disguise/) Files can be encrypted with a hardcoded or user-supplied key, as well as otherwise obfuscated using standard encoding schemes such as Base64.

The entire content of a file may be obfuscated, or just specific functions or values (such as C2 addresses). Encryption and encoding may also be applied in redundant layers for additional protection.

For example, adversaries may abuse password-protected Word documents or self-extracting (SFX) archives as a method of encrypting/encoding a file such as a Phishing payload. These files typically function by attaching the intended archived content to a decompressor stub that is executed when the file is invoked (e.g., User Execution). [SFX - Encrypted/Encoded File](https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/self-extracting-archives-decoy-files-and-their-hidden-payloads/) 

Adversaries may also abuse file-specific as well as custom encoding schemes. For example, Byte Order Mark (BOM) headers in text files may be abused to manipulate and obfuscate file content until Command and Scripting Interpreter execution.

### Mitigations

- [Behavior Prevention on Endpoint](/mitigations/M1040/) (`M1040`)
- [Antivirus/Antimalware](/mitigations/M1049/) (`M1049`)

### Groups

- [APT-C-36](/apt0099)
- [APT18](/apt0026)
- [APT19](/apt0073)
- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT32](/apt32)
- [APT33](/apt0064)
- [APT39](/apt0087)
- [BITTER](/apt1002)
- [Blue Mockingbird](/apt0108)
- [Contagious Interview](/apt1052)
- [Dark Caracal](/apt0070)
- [Darkhotel](/apt0012)
- [Elderwood](/apt0066)
- [Fox Kitten](/apt0117)
- [Group5](/apt0043)
- [Higaisa](/apt0126)
- [Inception](/apt0100)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [Leviathan](/apt40)
- [Magic Hound](/apt35)
- [Malteiro](/apt1026)
- [menuPass](/apt0045)
- [Metador](/apt1013)
- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [Mofang](/apt0103)
- [Moonstone Sleet](/apt1036)
- [Moses Staff](/apt1009)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [Putter Panda](/apt0024)
- [Saint Bear](/apt1031)
- [Sidewinder](/apt0121)
- [Storm-1811](/apt1046)
- [TA2541](/apt1018)
- [TA505](/cl0p)
- [TeamTNT](/apt0139)
- [Threat Group-3390](/apt0027)
- [Transparent Tribe](/apt0134)
- [Tropic Trooper](/apt0081)
- [Whitefly](/apt0107)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
