---
layout: technique
title: Masquerade File Type
mitre_id: T1036.008
permalink: "/techniques/T1036.008/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/008
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1036
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may masquerade malicious payloads as legitimate files
  through changes to the payload's formatting, including the file’s signature, extension,
  icon, and contents. Various file types have a typical standard format, including
  how they are encoded and organized. For exampl
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may masquerade malicious payloads as legitimate files through changes to the payload's formatting, including the file’s signature, extension, icon, and contents. Various file types have a typical standard format, including how they are encoded and organized. For example, a file’s signature (also known as header or magic bytes) is the beginning bytes of a file and is often used to identify the file’s type. For example, the header of a JPEG file, is <code> 0xFF 0xD8</code> and the file extension is either `.JPE`, `.JPEG` or `.JPG`. 

Adversaries may edit the header’s hex code and/or the file extension of a malicious payload in order to bypass file validation checks and/or input sanitization. This behavior is commonly used when payload files are transferred (e.g., Ingress Tool Transfer) and stored (e.g., Upload Malware) so that adversaries may move their malware without triggering detections. 

Common non-executable file types and extensions, such as text files (`.txt`) and image files (`.jpg`, `.gif`, etc.) may be typically treated as benign. Based on this, adversaries may use a file extension to disguise malware, such as naming a PHP backdoor code with a file name of <code>test.gif</code>. A user may not know that a file is malicious due to the benign appearance and file extension.

Polyglot files, which are files that have multiple different file types and that function differently based on the application that will execute them, may also be used to disguise malicious malware and capabilities. [polygot_icedID](https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/polyglot-file-icedid-payload) 

### Mitigations

- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)
- [Behavior Prevention on Endpoint](/mitigations/M1040/) (`M1040`)
- [Antivirus/Antimalware](/mitigations/M1049/) (`M1049`)

### Groups

- [BlackByte](/apt1043)
- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [Mustang Panda](/apt0129)
- [Volt Typhoon](/apt1017)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
