---
layout: technique
title: Startup Items
mitre_id: T1037.005
permalink: "/techniques/T1037.005/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/005
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1037
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may use startup items automatically executed at boot initialization to establish persistence. Startup items execute during the final phase of the boot process and contain shell scripts or other executable files along with configuration information used by the system to determine the execution order for all startup items. [Startup Items](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/MacOSX/Conceptual/BPSystemStartup/Chapters/StartupItems.html)

This is technically a deprecated technology (superseded by Launch Daemon), and thus the appropriate folder, <code>/Library/StartupItems</code> isn’t guaranteed to exist on the system by default, but does appear to exist by default on macOS Sierra. A startup item is a directory whose executable and configuration property list (plist), <code>StartupParameters.plist</code>, reside in the top-level directory. 

An adversary can create the appropriate folders/files in the StartupItems directory to register their own persistence mechanism. [Methods of Mac Malware Persistence](https://www.virusbulletin.com/uploads/pdf/conference/vb2014/VB2014-Wardle.pdf) Additionally, since StartupItems run during the bootup phase of macOS, they will run as the elevated root user.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
