---
layout: technique
title: Exfiltration Over Asymmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol
mitre_id: T1048.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1048.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1048/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0036
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1048
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may steal data by exfiltrating it over an asymmetrically
  encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and control channel.
  The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main command
  and control server. \n\nAsymmetric encryption"
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may steal data by exfiltrating it over an asymmetrically encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main command and control server. 

Asymmetric encryption algorithms are those that use different keys on each end of the channel. Also known as public-key cryptography, this requires pairs of cryptographic keys that can encrypt/decrypt data from the corresponding key. Each end of the communication channels requires a private key (only in the procession of that entity) and the public key of the other entity. The public keys of each entity are exchanged before encrypted communications begin. 

Network protocols that use asymmetric encryption (such as HTTPS/TLS/SSL) often utilize symmetric encryption once keys are exchanged. Adversaries may opt to use these encrypted mechanisms that are baked into a protocol. 

### Mitigations

- [Network Segmentation](/mitigations/M1030/) (`M1030`)
- [Network Intrusion Prevention](/mitigations/M1031/) (`M1031`)
- [Filter Network Traffic](/mitigations/M1037/) (`M1037`)
- [Data Loss Prevention](/mitigations/M1057/) (`M1057`)

### Groups

- [APT28](/apt28)
- [CURIUM](/apt1012)
- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [Storm-1811](/apt1046)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
