---
layout: technique
title: Unix Shell
mitre_id: T1059.004
permalink: "/techniques/T1059.004/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/004
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1059
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may abuse Unix shell commands and scripts for execution.
  Unix shells are the primary command prompt on Linux, macOS, and ESXi systems, though
  many variations of the Unix shell exist (e.g. sh, ash, bash, zsh, etc.) depending
  on the specific OS or distribution.(Citation:'
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse Unix shell commands and scripts for execution. Unix shells are the primary command prompt on Linux, macOS, and ESXi systems, though many variations of the Unix shell exist (e.g. sh, ash, bash, zsh, etc.) depending on the specific OS or distribution. [DieNet Bash](https://linux.die.net/man/1/bash) [Apple ZShell](https://support.apple.com/HT208050) Unix shells can control every aspect of a system, with certain commands requiring elevated privileges.

Unix shells also support scripts that enable sequential execution of commands as well as other typical programming operations such as conditionals and loops. Common uses of shell scripts include long or repetitive tasks, or the need to run the same set of commands on multiple systems.

Adversaries may abuse Unix shells to execute various commands or payloads. Interactive shells may be accessed through command and control channels or during lateral movement such as with SSH. Adversaries may also leverage shell scripts to deliver and execute multiple commands on victims or as part of payloads used for persistence.

Some systems, such as embedded devices, lightweight Linux distributions, and ESXi servers, may leverage stripped-down Unix shells via Busybox, a small executable that contains a variety of tools, including a simple shell.

### Mitigations

- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)

### Groups

- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Aquatic Panda](/apt0143)
- [Contagious Interview](/apt1052)
- [Rocke](/apt0106)
- [Scattered Spider](/apt1015)
- [Sea Turtle](/apt1041)
- [TeamTNT](/apt0139)
- [UNC3886](/apt1048)
- [Velvet Ant](/apt1047)
- [Volt Typhoon](/apt1017)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
