---
layout: technique
title: Portable Executable Injection
mitre_id: T1055.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1055.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1055
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may inject portable executables (PE) into processes
  in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.
  PE injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate
  live process. \n\nPE injection is commonly perform"
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may inject portable executables (PE) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. PE injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

PE injection is commonly performed by copying code (perhaps without a file on disk) into the virtual address space of the target process before invoking it via a new thread. The write can be performed with native Windows API calls such as <code>VirtualAllocEx</code> and <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, then invoked with <code>CreateRemoteThread</code> or additional code (ex: shellcode). The displacement of the injected code does introduce the additional requirement for functionality to remap memory references. [Elastic Process Injection July 2017](https://www.endgame.com/blog/technical-blog/ten-process-injection-techniques-technical-survey-common-and-trending-process) 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via PE injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

### Mitigations

- [Behavior Prevention on Endpoint](/mitigations/M1040/) (`M1040`)

### Groups

- [Gorgon Group](/apt0078)
- [Rocke](/apt0106)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
