---
layout: technique
title: Thread Execution Hijacking
mitre_id: T1055.003
permalink: "/techniques/T1055.003/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/003
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1055
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may inject malicious code into hijacked processes
  in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.
  Thread Execution Hijacking is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address
  space of a separate live process. \n\nThread Execution Hij"
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into hijacked processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Thread Execution Hijacking is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Thread Execution Hijacking is commonly performed by suspending an existing process then unmapping/hollowing its memory, which can then be replaced with malicious code or the path to a DLL. A handle to an existing victim process is first created with native Windows API calls such as <code>OpenThread</code>. At this point the process can be suspended then written to, realigned to the injected code, and resumed via <code>SuspendThread </code>, <code>VirtualAllocEx</code>, <code>WriteProcessMemory</code>, <code>SetThreadContext</code>, then <code>ResumeThread</code> respectively. [Elastic Process Injection July 2017](https://www.endgame.com/blog/technical-blog/ten-process-injection-techniques-technical-survey-common-and-trending-process) 

This is very similar to Process Hollowing but targets an existing process rather than creating a process in a suspended state. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via Thread Execution Hijacking may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

### Mitigations

- [Behavior Prevention on Endpoint](/mitigations/M1040/) (`M1040`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
