---
layout: technique
title: Ptrace System Calls
mitre_id: T1055.008
permalink: "/techniques/T1055.008/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/008
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1055
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0111
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Ptrace system call injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Ptrace system call injection involves attaching to and modifying a running process. The ptrace system call enables a debugging process to observe and control another process (and each individual thread), including changing memory and register values. [PTRACE man](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/ptrace.2.html) Ptrace system call injection is commonly performed by writing arbitrary code into a running process (ex: <code>malloc</code>) then invoking that memory with <code>PTRACE_SETREGS</code> to set the register containing the next instruction to execute. Ptrace system call injection can also be done with <code>PTRACE_POKETEXT</code>/<code>PTRACE_POKEDATA</code>, which copy data to a specific address in the target processes’ memory (ex: the current address of the next instruction). [PTRACE man](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/ptrace.2.html) [Medium Ptrace JUL 2018](https://medium.com/@jain.sm/code-injection-in-running-process-using-ptrace-d3ea7191a4be) 

Ptrace system call injection may not be possible targeting processes that are non-child processes and/or have higher-privileges. [BH Linux Inject](https://github.com/gaffe23/linux-inject/blob/master/slides_BHArsenal2015.pdf) 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via ptrace system call injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
