---
layout: technique
title: Thread Local Storage
mitre_id: T1055.005
permalink: "/techniques/T1055.005/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/005
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1055
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via thread
  local storage (TLS) callbacks in order to evade process-based defenses as well as
  possibly elevate privileges. TLS callback injection is a method of executing arbitrary
  code in the address space of a separate live pro
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via thread local storage (TLS) callbacks in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. TLS callback injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

TLS callback injection involves manipulating pointers inside a portable executable (PE) to redirect a process to malicious code before reaching the code's legitimate entry point. TLS callbacks are normally used by the OS to setup and/or cleanup data used by threads. Manipulating TLS callbacks may be performed by allocating and writing to specific offsets within a process’ memory space using other Process Injection techniques such as Process Hollowing. [FireEye TLS Nov 2017](https://www.fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2017/11/ursnif-variant-malicious-tls-callback-technique.html) 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via TLS callback injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

### Mitigations

- [Behavior Prevention on Endpoint](/mitigations/M1040/) (`M1040`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
