---
layout: technique
title: At
mitre_id: T1053.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1053.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1053/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
- TA0110
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1053
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may abuse the at utility to perform task scheduling
  for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The at utility exists as an
  executable within Windows, Linux, and macOS for scheduling tasks at a specified
  time and date. Although deprecated in favor of Schedule
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse the at utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The at utility exists as an executable within Windows, Linux, and macOS for scheduling tasks at a specified time and date. Although deprecated in favor of Scheduled Task's schtasks in Windows environments, using at requires that the Task Scheduler service be running, and the user to be logged on as a member of the local Administrators group. In addition to explicitly running the `at` command, adversaries may also schedule a task with at by directly leveraging the Windows Management Instrumentation `Win32_ScheduledJob` WMI class. [Malicious Life by Cybereason](https://www.cybereason.com/blog/wmi-lateral-movement-win32#blog-subscribe) 

On Linux and macOS, at may be invoked by the superuser as well as any users added to the <code>at.allow</code> file. If the <code>at.allow</code> file does not exist, the <code>at.deny</code> file is checked. Every username not listed in <code>at.deny</code> is allowed to invoke at. If the <code>at.deny</code> exists and is empty, global use of at is permitted. If neither file exists (which is often the baseline) only the superuser is allowed to use at. [Linux at](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/at.1p.html) 

Adversaries may use at to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for Persistence. at can also be abused to conduct remote Execution as part of Lateral Movement and/or to run a process under the context of a specified account (such as SYSTEM).

In Linux environments, adversaries may also abuse at to break out of restricted environments by using a task to spawn an interactive system shell or to run system commands. Similarly, at may also be used for Privilege Escalation if the binary is allowed to run as superuser via <code>sudo</code>. [GTFObins at](https://gtfobins.github.io/gtfobins/at/) 

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Operating System Configuration](/mitigations/M1028/) (`M1028`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M1047/) (`M1047`)

### Groups

- [APT18](/apt0026)
- [BRONZE BUTLER](/apt0060)
- [Threat Group-3390](/apt0027)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
