---
layout: technique
title: Cloud API
mitre_id: T1059.009
permalink: "/techniques/T1059.009/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/009
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1059
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may abuse cloud APIs to execute malicious commands.
  APIs available in cloud environments provide various functionalities and are a feature-rich
  method for programmatic access to nearly all aspects of a tenant. These APIs may
  be utilized through various methods such as '
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse cloud APIs to execute malicious commands. APIs available in cloud environments provide various functionalities and are a feature-rich method for programmatic access to nearly all aspects of a tenant. These APIs may be utilized through various methods such as command line interpreters (CLIs), in-browser Cloud Shells, PowerShell modules like Azure for PowerShell [Microsoft - Azure PowerShell](https://github.com/Azure/azure-powershell) , or software developer kits (SDKs) available for languages such as Python. 

Cloud API functionality may allow for administrative access across all major services in a tenant such as compute, storage, identity and access management (IAM), networking, and security policies.

With proper permissions (often via use of credentials such as Application Access Token and Web Session Cookie), adversaries may abuse cloud APIs to invoke various functions that execute malicious actions. For example, CLI and PowerShell functionality may be accessed through binaries installed on cloud-hosted or on-premises hosts or accessed through a browser-based cloud shell offered by many cloud platforms (such as AWS, Azure, and GCP). These cloud shells are often a packaged unified environment to use CLI and/or scripting modules hosted as a container in the cloud environment. 

### Mitigations

- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)

### Groups

- [APT29](/apt29)
- [Storm-0501](/apt1053)
- [TeamTNT](/apt0139)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
