---
layout: technique
title: Network Device CLI
mitre_id: T1059.008
permalink: "/techniques/T1059.008/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/008
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1059
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may abuse scripting or built-in command line interpreters
  (CLI) on network devices to execute malicious command and payloads. The CLI is the
  primary means through which users and administrators interact with the device in
  order to view system information, modify device
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse scripting or built-in command line interpreters (CLI) on network devices to execute malicious command and payloads. The CLI is the primary means through which users and administrators interact with the device in order to view system information, modify device operations, or perform diagnostic and administrative functions. CLIs typically contain various permission levels required for different commands. 

Scripting interpreters automate tasks and extend functionality beyond the command set included in the network OS. The CLI and scripting interpreter are accessible through a direct console connection, or through remote means, such as telnet or SSH.

Adversaries can use the network CLI to change how network devices behave and operate. The CLI may be used to manipulate traffic flows to intercept or manipulate data, modify startup configuration parameters to load malicious system software, or to disable security features or logging to avoid detection. [Cisco Synful Knock Evolution](https://blogs.cisco.com/security/evolution-of-attacks-on-cisco-ios-devices) 

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
