---
layout: technique
title: Cloud Accounts
mitre_id: T1078.004
permalink: "/techniques/T1078.004/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/004
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0110
- TA0111
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1078
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Valid accounts in cloud environments may allow adversaries to
  perform actions to achieve Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or
  Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those created and configured by an organization
  for use by users, remote support, services, or for adm
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Valid accounts in cloud environments may allow adversaries to perform actions to achieve Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those created and configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application. Cloud Accounts can exist solely in the cloud; alternatively, they may be hybrid-joined between on-premises systems and the cloud through syncing or federation with other identity sources such as Windows Active Directory. [AWS Identity Federation](https://aws.amazon.com/identity/federation/) [Google Federating GC](https://cloud.google.com/solutions/federating-gcp-with-active-directory-introduction) [Microsoft Deploying AD Federation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-fs/deployment/how-to-connect-fed-azure-adfs) 

Service or user accounts may be targeted by adversaries through Brute Force, Phishing, or various other means to gain access to the environment. Federated or synced accounts may be a pathway for the adversary to affect both on-premises systems and cloud environments - for example, by leveraging shared credentials to log onto Remote Services. High privileged cloud accounts, whether federated, synced, or cloud-only, may also allow pivoting to on-premises environments by leveraging SaaS-based Software Deployment Tools to run commands on hybrid-joined devices.

An adversary may create long lasting Additional Cloud Credentials on a compromised cloud account to maintain persistence in the environment. Such credentials may also be used to bypass security controls such as multi-factor authentication. 

Cloud accounts may also be able to assume Temporary Elevated Cloud Access or other privileges through various means within the environment. Misconfigurations in role assignments or role assumption policies may allow an adversary to use these mechanisms to leverage permissions outside the intended scope of the account. Such over privileged accounts may be used to harvest sensitive data from online storage accounts and databases through Cloud API or other methods. For example, in Azure environmen...

### Mitigations

- [Active Directory Configuration](/mitigations/M1015/) (`M1015`)
- [User Training](/mitigations/M1017/) (`M1017`)
- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Password Policies](/mitigations/M1027/) (`M1027`)
- [Multi-factor Authentication](/mitigations/M1032/) (`M1032`)
- [Account Use Policies](/mitigations/M1036/) (`M1036`)

### Groups

- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT29](/apt29)
- [APT33](/apt0064)
- [APT5](/apt1023)
- [HAFNIUM](/apt0125)
- [Ke3chang](/apt0004)
- [LAPSUS$](/apt1004)
- [Scattered Spider](/apt1015)
- [Storm-0501](/apt1053)
- [VOID MANTICORE](/void-manticore)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
