---
layout: technique
title: DNS
mitre_id: T1071.004
permalink: "/techniques/T1071.004/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/004
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0101
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1071
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may communicate using the Domain Name System (DNS)
  application layer protocol to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with
  existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those
  commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may communicate using the Domain Name System (DNS) application layer protocol to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

The DNS protocol serves an administrative function in computer networking and thus may be very common in environments. DNS traffic may also be allowed even before network authentication is completed. DNS packets contain many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. Often known as DNS tunneling, adversaries may abuse DNS to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic. [PAN DNS Tunneling](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-dns-tunneling) [Medium DnsTunneling](https://medium.com/@galolbardes/learn-how-easy-is-to-bypass-firewalls-using-dns-tunneling-and-also-how-to-block-it-3ed652f4a000) 

DNS beaconing may be used to send commands to remote systems via DNS queries. A DNS beacon is created by tunneling DNS traffic (i.e. Protocol Tunneling). The commands may be embedded into different DNS records, for example, TXT or A records. [OilRig Uses Updated BONDUPDATER to Target Middle Eastern Government](https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/unit42-oilrig-uses-updated-bondupdater-target-middle-eastern-government/) DNS beacons may be difficult to detect because the beacons infrequently communicate with infected devices. [DNS Beacons](https://vercara.digicert.com/resources/dns-beacons#page_top) Infrequent communication conceals the malicious DNS traffic with normal DNS traffic. 

### Mitigations

- [Network Intrusion Prevention](/mitigations/M1031/) (`M1031`)
- [Filter Network Traffic](/mitigations/M1037/) (`M1037`)

### Groups

- [APT18](/apt0026)
- [APT39](/apt0087)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Chimera](/apt0114)
- [Cobalt Group](/apt0080)
- [Ember Bear](/apt1003)
- [FIN7](/fin7)
- [Ke3chang](/apt0004)
- [LazyScripter](/apt0140)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [Tropic Trooper](/apt0081)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
