---
layout: technique
title: Software Deployment Tools
mitre_id: T1072
permalink: "/techniques/T1072/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1072
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
- TA0109
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may gain access to and use centralized software suites
  installed within an enterprise to execute commands and move laterally through the
  network. Configuration management and software deployment applications may be used
  in an enterprise network or cloud environment for
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may gain access to and use centralized software suites installed within an enterprise to execute commands and move laterally through the network. Configuration management and software deployment applications may be used in an enterprise network or cloud environment for routine administration purposes. These systems may also be integrated into CI/CD pipelines. Examples of such solutions include: SCCM, HBSS, Altiris, AWS Systems Manager, Microsoft Intune, Azure Arc, and GCP Deployment Manager. 

Access to network-wide or enterprise-wide endpoint management software may enable an adversary to achieve remote code execution on all connected systems. The access may be used to laterally move to other systems, gather information, or cause a specific effect, such as wiping the hard drives on all endpoints.

SaaS-based configuration management services may allow for broad Cloud Administration Command on cloud-hosted instances, as well as the execution of arbitrary commands on on-premises endpoints. For example, Microsoft Configuration Manager allows Global or Intune Administrators to run scripts as SYSTEM on on-premises devices joined to Entra ID. [SpecterOps Lateral Movement from Azure to On-Prem AD 2020](https://posts.specterops.io/death-from-above-lateral-movement-from-azure-to-on-prem-ad-d18cb3959d4d) Such services may also utilize Web Protocols to communicate back to adversary owned infrastructure. [Mitiga Security Advisory: SSM Agent as Remote Access Trojan](https://www.mitiga.io/blog/mitiga-security-advisory-abusing-the-ssm-agent-as-a-remote-access-trojan) 

Network infrastructure devices may also have configuration management tools that can be similarly abused by adversaries. [Fortinet Zero-Day and Custom Malware Used by Suspected Chinese Actor in Espionage Operation](https://www.mandiant.com/resources/blog/fortinet-malware-ecosystem) 

The permissions required for this action vary by system configuration; local credentials may be sufficient with direct access to the third-party system, or specific domain credentials may be required. However, the system may require an administrative account to log in or to access specific functionality.

### Mitigations

- [Active Directory Configuration](/mitigations/M1015/) (`M1015`)
- [User Training](/mitigations/M1017/) (`M1017`)
- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Password Policies](/mitigations/M1027/) (`M1027`)
- [Remote Data Storage](/mitigations/M1029/) (`M1029`)
- [Network Segmentation](/mitigations/M1030/) (`M1030`)
- [Multi-factor Authentication](/mitigations/M1032/) (`M1032`)
- [Limit Software Installation](/mitigations/M1033/) (`M1033`)
- [Update Software](/mitigations/M1051/) (`M1051`)

### Groups

- [APT32](/apt32)
- [Medusa Group](/apt1051)
- [Mustang Panda](/apt0129)
- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)
- [Silence](/apt0091)
- [Threat Group-1314](/apt0028)
- [VOID MANTICORE](/void-manticore)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
