---
layout: technique
title: Replication Through Removable Media
mitre_id: T1091
permalink: "/techniques/T1091/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0109
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may move onto systems, possibly those on disconnected
  or air-gapped networks, by copying malware to removable media and taking advantage
  of Autorun features when the media is inserted into a system and executes. In the
  case of Lateral Movement, this may occur through m
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may move onto systems, possibly those on disconnected or air-gapped networks, by copying malware to removable media and taking advantage of Autorun features when the media is inserted into a system and executes. In the case of Lateral Movement, this may occur through modification of executable files stored on removable media or by copying malware and renaming it to look like a legitimate file to trick users into executing it on a separate system. In the case of Initial Access, this may occur through manual manipulation of the media, modification of systems used to initially format the media, or modification to the media's firmware itself.

Mobile devices may also be used to infect PCs with malware if connected via USB. [Exploiting Smartphone USB](https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.226.3427&rep=rep1&type=pdf) This infection may be achieved using devices (Android, iOS, etc.) and, in some instances, USB charging cables. [Windows Malware Infecting Android](https://www.computerworld.com/article/2486903/windows-malware-tries-to-infect-android-devices-connected-to-pcs.html) [iPhone Charging Cable Hack](https://techcrunch.com/2019/08/12/iphone-charging-cable-hack-computer-def-con/) For example, when a smartphone is connected to a system, it may appear to be mounted similar to a USB-connected disk drive. If malware that is compatible with the connected system is on the mobile device, the malware could infect the machine (especially if Autorun features are enabled).

### Mitigations

- [Limit Hardware Installation](/mitigations/M1034/) (`M1034`)
- [Behavior Prevention on Endpoint](/mitigations/M1040/) (`M1040`)
- [Disable or Remove Feature or Program](/mitigations/M1042/) (`M1042`)

### Groups

- [Aoqin Dragon](/apt1007)
- [APT28](/apt28)
- [Darkhotel](/apt0012)
- [FIN7](/fin7)
- [Gamaredon Group](/apt0047)
- [LuminousMoth](/apt1014)
- [Mustang Panda](/apt0129)
- [Tropic Trooper](/apt0081)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
