---
layout: technique
title: Bidirectional Communication
mitre_id: T1102.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1102.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0101
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1102
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service
  as a means for sending commands to and receiving output from a compromised system
  over the Web service channel. Compromised systems may leverage popular websites
  and social media to host command and control (C2) inst
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for sending commands to and receiving output from a compromised system over the Web service channel. Compromised systems may leverage popular websites and social media to host command and control (C2) instructions. Those infected systems can then send the output from those commands back over that Web service channel. The return traffic may occur in a variety of ways, depending on the Web service being utilized. For example, the return traffic may take the form of the compromised system posting a comment on a forum, issuing a pull request to development project, updating a document hosted on a Web service, or by sending a Tweet. 

Popular websites and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a significant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection. 

### Mitigations

- [Restrict Web-Based Content](/mitigations/M1021/) (`M1021`)
- [Network Intrusion Prevention](/mitigations/M1031/) (`M1031`)

### Groups

- [APT12](/apt0005)
- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT37](/apt0067)
- [APT39](/apt0087)
- [Carbanak](/fin7)
- [FIN7](/fin7)
- [Gamaredon Group](/apt0047)
- [HEXANE](/apt1001)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [Magic Hound](/apt35)
- [MuddyWater](/apt0069)
- [POLONIUM](/apt1005)
- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)
- [Turla](/apt0010)
- [ZIRCONIUM](/apt0128)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
