---
layout: technique
title: One-Way Communication
mitre_id: T1102.003
permalink: "/techniques/T1102.003/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/003
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0101
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1102
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service
  as a means for sending commands to a compromised system without receiving return
  output over the Web service channel. Compromised systems may leverage popular websites
  and social media to host command and control (C2
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for sending commands to a compromised system without receiving return output over the Web service channel. Compromised systems may leverage popular websites and social media to host command and control (C2) instructions. Those infected systems may opt to send the output from those commands back over a different C2 channel, including to another distinct Web service. Alternatively, compromised systems may return no output at all in cases where adversaries want to send instructions to systems and do not want a response.

Popular websites and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a significant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection.

### Mitigations

- [Restrict Web-Based Content](/mitigations/M1021/) (`M1021`)
- [Network Intrusion Prevention](/mitigations/M1031/) (`M1031`)

### Groups

- [Gamaredon Group](/apt0047)
- [Leviathan](/apt40)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
