---
layout: technique
title: Brute Force
mitre_id: T1110
permalink: "/techniques/T1110/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1110
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0031
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may use brute force techniques to gain access to
  accounts when passwords are unknown or when password hashes are obtained.(Citation:
  TrendMicro Pawn Storm Dec 2020) Without knowledge of the password for an account
  or set of accounts, an adversary may systematically gue'
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may use brute force techniques to gain access to accounts when passwords are unknown or when password hashes are obtained. [TrendMicro Pawn Storm Dec 2020](https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/research/20/l/pawn-storm-lack-of-sophistication-as-a-strategy.html) Without knowledge of the password for an account or set of accounts, an adversary may systematically guess the password using a repetitive or iterative mechanism. [Dragos Crashoverride 2018](https://www.dragos.com/wp-content/uploads/CRASHOVERRIDE2018.pdf) Brute forcing passwords can take place via interaction with a service that will check the validity of those credentials or offline against previously acquired credential data, such as password hashes.

Brute forcing credentials may take place at various points during a breach. For example, adversaries may attempt to brute force access to Valid Accounts within a victim environment leveraging knowledge gathered from other post-compromise behaviors such as OS Credential Dumping, Account Discovery, or Password Policy Discovery. Adversaries may also combine brute forcing activity with behaviors such as External Remote Services as part of Initial Access. 

If an adversary guesses the correct password but fails to login to a compromised account due to location-based conditional access policies, they may change their infrastructure until they match the victim’s location and therefore bypass those policies. [ReliaQuest Health Care Social Engineering Campaign 2024](https://www.reliaquest.com/blog/health-care-social-engineering-campaign/) 

### Sub-techniques

- [Password Guessing](/techniques/T1110.001/) (`T1110.001`)
- [Password Cracking](/techniques/T1110.002/) (`T1110.002`)
- [Password Spraying](/techniques/T1110.003/) (`T1110.003`)
- [Credential Stuffing](/techniques/T1110.004/) (`T1110.004`)

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Password Policies](/mitigations/M1027/) (`M1027`)
- [Multi-factor Authentication](/mitigations/M1032/) (`M1032`)
- [Account Use Policies](/mitigations/M1036/) (`M1036`)

### Groups

- [Agrius](/apt1030)
- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT38](/apt0082)
- [APT39](/apt0087)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [DarkVishnya](/apt0105)
- [Dragonfly](/apt0035)
- [Ember Bear](/apt1003)
- [FIN5](/apt0053)
- [Fox Kitten](/apt0117)
- [HEXANE](/apt1001)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [Storm-0501](/apt1053)
- [Turla](/apt0010)
- [VOID MANTICORE](/void-manticore)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
