---
layout: technique
title: SID-History Injection
mitre_id: T1134.005
permalink: "/techniques/T1134.005/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/005
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1134
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0111
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may use SID-History Injection to escalate privileges and bypass access controls. The Windows security identifier (SID) is a unique value that identifies a user or group account. SIDs are used by Windows security in both security descriptors and access tokens. [Microsoft SID](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/aa379571.aspx) An account can hold additional SIDs in the SID-History Active Directory attribute [Microsoft SID-History Attribute](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/ms679833.aspx), allowing inter-operable account migration between domains (e.g., all values in SID-History are included in access tokens).

With Domain Administrator (or equivalent) rights, harvested or well-known SID values [Microsoft Well Known SIDs Jun 2017](https://support.microsoft.com/help/243330/well-known-security-identifiers-in-windows-operating-systems) may be inserted into SID-History to enable impersonation of arbitrary users/groups such as Enterprise Administrators. This manipulation may result in elevated access to local resources and/or access to otherwise inaccessible domains via lateral movement techniques such as Remote Services, SMB/Windows Admin Shares, or Windows Remote Management.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
