---
layout: technique
title: Local Account
mitre_id: T1136.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1136.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/001
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1136
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may create a local account to maintain access to victim systems. Local accounts are those configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration on a single system or service. 

For example, with a sufficient level of access, the Windows <code>net user /add</code> command can be used to create a local account. In Linux, the `useradd` command can be used, while on macOS systems, the <code>dscl -create</code> command can be used. Local accounts may also be added to network devices, often via common Network Device CLI commands such as <code>username</code>, to ESXi servers via `esxcli system account add`, or to Kubernetes clusters using the `kubectl` utility. [cisco_username_cmd](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/ios-xml/ios/security/s1/sec-s1-cr-book/sec-cr-t2.html#wp1047035630) [Kubernetes Service Accounts Security](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/service-accounts/)

Adversaries may also create new local accounts on network firewall management consoles – for example, by exploiting a vulnerable firewall management system, threat actors may be able to establish super-admin accounts that could be used to modify firewall rules and gain further access to the network. [Cyber Security News](https://cybersecuritynews.com/superblack-actors-exploiting-two-fortinet-vulnerabilities/)

Such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
