---
layout: technique
title: Browser Extensions
mitre_id: T1176.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1176.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1176/001
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1176
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may abuse internet browser extensions to establish
  persistent access to victim systems. Browser extensions or plugins are small programs
  that can add functionality to and customize aspects of internet browsers. They can
  be installed directly via a local file or custom '
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse internet browser extensions to establish persistent access to victim systems. Browser extensions or plugins are small programs that can add functionality to and customize aspects of internet browsers. They can be installed directly via a local file or custom URL or through a browser's app store - an official online platform where users can browse, install, and manage extensions for a specific web browser. Extensions generally inherit the web browser's permissions previously granted. [Wikipedia Browser Extension](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Browser_extension) [Chrome Extensions Definition](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions) 
 
Malicious extensions can be installed into a browser through malicious app store downloads masquerading as legitimate extensions, through social engineering, or by an adversary that has already compromised a system. Security can be limited on browser app stores, so it may not be difficult for malicious extensions to defeat automated scanners. [Malicious Chrome Extension Numbers](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//pubs/archive/43824.pdf) Depending on the browser, adversaries may also manipulate an extension's update url to install updates from an adversary-controlled server or manipulate the mobile configuration file to silently install additional extensions. 

Adversaries may abuse how chromium-based browsers load extensions by modifying or replacing the Preferences and/or Secure Preferences files to silently install malicious extensions. When the browser is not running, adversaries can alter these files, ensuring the extension is loaded, granted desired permissions, and will persist in browser sessions. This method does not require user consent and extensions are silently loaded in the background from disk or from the browser's trusted store. [Pulsedive](https://blog.pulsedive.com/rilide-an-information-stealing-browser-extension/) 
 
Previous to macOS 11, adversaries could silently install browser extensions via the command line using the <code>profiles</code> tool to install malicious <code>.mobileconfig</code> files. In macOS 11+, the use of the <code>profiles</code> tool can no longer install con...

### Mitigations

- [User Training](/mitigations/M1017/) (`M1017`)
- [Limit Software Installation](/mitigations/M1033/) (`M1033`)
- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M1047/) (`M1047`)
- [Update Software](/mitigations/M1051/) (`M1051`)

### Groups

- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
