---
layout: technique
title: Exploitation for Client Execution
mitre_id: T1203
permalink: "/techniques/T1203/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1203
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
is_subtechnique: false
parent_mitre_id:
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in client applications
  to execute code. Vulnerabilities can exist in software due to unsecure coding practices
  that can lead to unanticipated behavior. Adversaries can take advantage of certain
  vulnerabilities through targeted explo
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in client applications to execute code. Vulnerabilities can exist in software due to unsecure coding practices that can lead to unanticipated behavior. Adversaries can take advantage of certain vulnerabilities through targeted exploitation for the purpose of arbitrary code execution. Oftentimes the most valuable exploits to an offensive toolkit are those that can be used to obtain code execution on a remote system because they can be used to gain access to that system. Users will expect to see files related to the applications they commonly used to do work, so they are a useful target for exploit research and development because of their high utility.

Several types exist:

### Browser-based Exploitation

Web browsers are a common target through Drive-by Compromise and Spearphishing Link. Endpoint systems may be compromised through normal web browsing or from certain users being targeted by links in spearphishing emails to adversary controlled sites used to exploit the web browser. These often do not require an action by the user for the exploit to be executed.

### Office Applications

Common office and productivity applications such as Microsoft Office are also targeted through Phishing. Malicious files will be transmitted directly as attachments or through links to download them. These require the user to open the document or file for the exploit to run.

### Common Third-party Applications

Other applications that are commonly seen or are part of the software deployed in a target network may also be used for exploitation. Applications such as Adobe Reader and Flash, which are common in enterprise environments, have been routinely targeted by adversaries attempting to gain access to systems. Depending on the software and nature of the vulnerability, some may be exploited in the browser or require the user to open a file. For instance, some Flash exploits have been delivered as objects within Microsoft Office docu...

### Mitigations

- [Application Isolation and Sandboxing](/mitigations/M1048/) (`M1048`)
- [Exploit Protection](/mitigations/M1050/) (`M1050`)
- [Update Software](/mitigations/M1051/) (`M1051`)

### Groups

- [admin@338](/apt0018)
- [Andariel](/apt0138)
- [Aoqin Dragon](/apt1007)
- [APT12](/apt0005)
- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT29](/apt29)
- [APT3](/apt0022)
- [APT32](/apt32)
- [APT33](/apt0064)
- [APT37](/apt0067)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Axiom](/apt0001)
- [BITTER](/apt1002)
- [BlackTech](/apt0098)
- [BRONZE BUTLER](/apt0060)
- [Cobalt Group](/apt0080)
- [Confucius](/apt0142)
- [Darkhotel](/apt0012)
- [Dragonfly](/apt0035)
- [Elderwood](/apt0066)
- [Ember Bear](/apt1003)
- [EXOTIC LILY](/apt1011)
- [Higaisa](/apt0126)
- [Inception](/apt0100)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [Leviathan](/apt40)
- [MuddyWater](/apt0069)
- [Mustang Panda](/apt0129)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [Patchwork](/apt0040)
- [Saint Bear](/apt1031)
- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)
- [Sea Turtle](/apt1041)
- [Sidewinder](/apt0121)
- [TA459](/apt0062)
- [The White Company](/apt0089)
- [Threat Group-3390](/apt0027)
- [Tonto Team](/apt0131)
- [Transparent Tribe](/apt0134)
- [Tropic Trooper](/apt0081)
- [UNC3886](/apt1048)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
