---
layout: technique
title: User Execution
mitre_id: T1204
permalink: "/techniques/T1204/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204
domains:
- enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

An adversary may rely upon specific actions by a user in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to execute malicious code by, for example, opening a malicious document file or link. These user actions will typically be observed as follow-on behavior from forms of Phishing.

While User Execution frequently occurs shortly after Initial Access it may occur at other phases of an intrusion, such as when an adversary places a file in a shared directory or on a user's desktop hoping that a user will click on it. This activity may also be seen shortly after Internal Spearphishing.

Adversaries may also deceive users into performing actions such as:

* Enabling Remote Access Tools, allowing direct control of the system to the adversary
* Running malicious JavaScript in their browser, allowing adversaries to Steal Web Session Cookies(Citation: Talos Roblox Scam 2023)(Citation: Krebs Discord Bookmarks 2023)
* Downloading and executing malware for User Execution
* Coerceing users to copy, paste, and execute malicious code manually(Citation: Reliaquest-execution)(Citation: proofpoint-selfpwn)

For example, tech support scams can be facilitated through Phishing, vishing, or various forms of user interaction. Adversaries can use a combination of these methods, such as spoofing and promoting toll-free numbers or call centers that are used to direct victims to malicious websites, to deliver and execute payloads containing malware or Remote Access Tools.(Citation: Telephone Attack Delivery)

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
