---
layout: technique
title: Exploitation for Privilege Escalation
mitre_id: T1404
permalink: "/techniques/T1404/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1404
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
tactic_ids:
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: false
parent_mitre_id:
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in order to
  elevate privileges. Exploitation of a software vulnerability occurs when an adversary
  takes advantage of a programming error in an application, service, within the operating
  system software, or kernel itself to execute a
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in order to elevate privileges. Exploitation of a software vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in an application, service, within the operating system software, or kernel itself to execute adversary-controlled code. Security constructions, such as permission levels, will often hinder access to information and use of certain techniques. Adversaries will likely need to perform privilege escalation to include use of software exploitation to circumvent those restrictions. 

When initially gaining access to a device, an adversary may be operating within a lower privileged process which will prevent them from accessing certain resources on the system. Vulnerabilities may exist, usually in operating system components and applications running at higher permissions, that can be exploited to gain higher levels of access on the system. This could enable someone to move from unprivileged or user- level permission to root permissions depending on the component that is vulnerable. 

### Mitigations

- [Security Updates](/mitigations/M1001/) (`M1001`)
- [Attestation](/mitigations/M1002/) (`M1002`)
- [Deploy Compromised Device Detection Method](/mitigations/M1010/) (`M1010`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
