---
layout: technique
title: Process Discovery
mitre_id: T1424
permalink: "/techniques/T1424/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1424
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.0'
tactic_ids:
- TA0102
---

## Description

Adversaries may attempt to get information about running processes on a device. Information obtained could be used to gain an understanding of common software/applications running on devices within a network. Adversaries may use the information from Process Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions. 

 

Recent Android security enhancements have made it more difficult to obtain a list of running processes. On Android 7 and later, there is no way for an application to obtain the process list without abusing elevated privileges. This is due to the Android kernel utilizing the `hidepid` mount feature. Prior to Android 7, applications could utilize the `ps` command or examine the `/proc` directory on the device. [Android-SELinuxChanges](https://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=205565) 

 

In iOS, applications have previously been able to use the `sysctl` command to obtain a list of running processes. This functionality has been removed in later iOS versions.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
