---
layout: technique
title: System Network Connections Discovery
mitre_id: T1421
permalink: "/techniques/T1421/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1421
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.0'
tactic_ids:
- TA0102
---

## Description

Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of network connections to or from the compromised device they are currently accessing or from remote systems by querying for information over the network. 

 

This is typically accomplished by utilizing device APIs to collect information about nearby networks, such as Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cellular tower connections. On Android, this can be done by querying the respective APIs: 

 

* `WifiInfo` for information about the current Wi-Fi connection, as well as nearby Wi-Fi networks. Querying the `WiFiInfo` API requires the application to hold the `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission. 

* `BluetoothAdapter` for information about Bluetooth devices, which also requires the application to hold several permissions granted by the user at runtime. 

* For Android versions prior to Q, applications can use the `TelephonyManager.getNeighboringCellInfo()` method. For Q and later, applications can use the `TelephonyManager.getAllCellInfo()` method. Both methods require the application hold the `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` permission.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
