---
layout: technique
title: System Network Configuration Discovery
mitre_id: T1422
permalink: "/techniques/T1422/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1422
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
tactic_ids:
- TA0102
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may look for details about the network configuration
  and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses, of devices they access or through
  information discovery of remote systems. \n\nAdversaries may use the information
  from System Network Configuration Discovery during autom"
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may look for details about the network configuration and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses, of devices they access or through information discovery of remote systems. 

Adversaries may use the information from System Network Configuration Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining certain access within the target network and what actions to do next. 

On Android, details of onboard network interfaces are accessible to apps through the `java.net.NetworkInterface` class. [NetworkInterface](https://developer.android.com/reference/java/net/NetworkInterface.html) Previously, the Android `TelephonyManager` class could be used to gather telephony-related device identifiers, information such as the IMSI, IMEI, and phone number. However, starting with Android 10, only preloaded, carrier, the default SMS, or device and profile owner applications can access the telephony-related device identifiers. [TelephonyManager](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/telephony/TelephonyManager.html) 

 

On iOS, gathering network configuration information is not possible without root access. 

 

Adversaries may use the information from System Network Configuration Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining certain access within the target network and what actions to do next. 

### Sub-techniques

- [Internet Connection Discovery](/techniques/T1422.001/) (`T1422.001`)
- [Wi-Fi Discovery](/techniques/T1422.002/) (`T1422.002`)

### Mitigations

- [Use Recent OS Version](/mitigations/M1006/) (`M1006`)

### Groups

- [APT-C-23](/apt1028)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
