---
layout: technique
title: SIM Card Swap
mitre_id: T1451
permalink: "/techniques/T1451/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1451
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
tactic_ids:
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may gain access to mobile devices through transfers
  or swaps from victims’ phone numbers to adversary-controlled SIM cards and mobile
  devices.(Citation: ATT SIM Swap Scams)(Citation: Verizon SIM Swapping) \n\nThe typical
  process is as follows:  \n\n1. Adversaries will firs"
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may gain access to mobile devices through transfers or swaps from victims’ phone numbers to adversary-controlled SIM cards and mobile devices. [ATT SIM Swap Scams](https://www.research.att.com/sites/cyberaware/ni/blog/sim_swap.html) [Verizon SIM Swapping](https://www.verizon.com/about/account-security/sim-swapping) 

The typical process is as follows: 

1. Adversaries will first gather information about victims through Phishing, social engineering, data breaches, or other avenues. 
2. Adversaries will then impersonate victims as they contact mobile carriers to request for the SIM swaps. For example, adversaries would provide victims’ name and address to mobile carriers; once authenticated, adversaries would request for victims’ phone numbers to be transferred to adversary-controlled SIM cards. 
3. Once completed, victims will lose mobile data, such as text messages and phone calls, on their mobile devices. In turn, adversaries will receive mobile data that was intended for the victims. 

Adversaries may use the intercepted SMS messages to log into online accounts that use SMS-based authentication. Specifically, adversaries may use SMS-based authentication to log into banking and/or cryptocurrency accounts, then transfer funds to adversary-controlled wallets. 

### Mitigations

- [User Guidance](/mitigations/M1011/) (`M1011`)
- [Enterprise Policy](/mitigations/M1012/) (`M1012`)

### Groups

- [LAPSUS$](/apt1004)
- [Scattered Spider](/apt1015)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
