---
layout: technique
title: Domain or Tenant Policy Modification
mitre_id: T1484
permalink: "/techniques/T1484/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1484
domains:
- enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
- TA0111
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may modify the configuration settings of a domain or identity tenant to evade defenses and/or escalate privileges in centrally managed environments. Such services provide a centralized means of managing identity resources such as devices and accounts, and often include configuration settings that may apply between domains or tenants such as trust relationships, identity syncing, or identity federation.

Modifications to domain or tenant settings may include altering domain Group Policy Objects (GPOs) in Microsoft Active Directory (AD) or changing trust settings for domains, including federation trusts relationships between domains or tenants.

With sufficient permissions, adversaries can modify domain or tenant policy settings. Since configuration settings for these services apply to a large number of identity resources, there are a great number of potential attacks malicious outcomes that can stem from this abuse. Examples of such abuse include:  

* modifying GPOs to push a malicious Scheduled Task to computers throughout the domain environment(Citation: ADSecurity GPO Persistence 2016)(Citation: Wald0 Guide to GPOs)(Citation: Harmj0y Abusing GPO Permissions)
* modifying domain trusts to include an adversary-controlled domain, allowing adversaries to  forge access tokens that will subsequently be accepted by victim domain resources(Citation: Microsoft - Customer Guidance on Recent Nation-State Cyber Attacks)
* changing configuration settings within the AD environment to implement a Rogue Domain Controller.
* adding new, adversary-controlled federated identity providers to identity tenants, allowing adversaries to authenticate as any user managed by the victim tenant (Citation: Okta Cross-Tenant Impersonation 2023)

Adversaries may temporarily modify domain or tenant policy, carry out a malicious action(s), and then revert the change to remove suspicious indicators.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
