---
layout: technique
title: Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion
mitre_id: T1497
permalink: "/techniques/T1497/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1497
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0102
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid virtualization
  and analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results
  of checks for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment
  (VME) or sandbox. If the adversary detect
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors. [Deloitte Environment Awareness](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1t0jn3xr4ff2fR30oQAUn_RsWSnMpOAQc/edit) 

Adversaries may use several methods to accomplish Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion such as checking for security monitoring tools (e.g., Sysinternals, Wireshark, etc.) or other system artifacts associated with analysis or virtualization. Adversaries may also check for legitimate user activity to help determine if it is in an analysis environment. Additional methods include use of sleep timers or loops within malware code to avoid operating within a temporary sandbox. [Unit 42 Pirpi July 2015](https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/ups-observations-on-cve-2015-3113-prior-zero-days-and-the-pirpi-payload/) 



### Sub-techniques

- [System Checks](/techniques/T1497.001/) (`T1497.001`)
- [User Activity Based Checks](/techniques/T1497.002/) (`T1497.002`)
- [Time Based Checks](/techniques/T1497.003/) (`T1497.003`)

### Groups

- [Contagious Interview](/apt1052)
- [Darkhotel](/apt0012)
- [Saint Bear](/apt1031)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
