---
layout: technique
title: Security Software Discovery
mitre_id: T1518.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1518.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1518/001
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0102
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1518
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of security software,
  configurations, defensive tools, and sensors that are installed on a system or in
  a cloud environment. This may include things such as cloud monitoring agents and
  anti-virus. Adversaries may use the information from Se
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of security software, configurations, defensive tools, and sensors that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment. This may include things such as cloud monitoring agents and anti-virus. Adversaries may use the information from Security Software Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Example commands that can be used to obtain security software information are netsh, <code>reg query</code> with Reg, <code>dir</code> with cmd, and Tasklist, but other indicators of discovery behavior may be more specific to the type of software or security system the adversary is looking for. It is becoming more common to see macOS malware perform checks for LittleSnitch and KnockKnock software.

Adversaries may also utilize the Cloud API to discover cloud-native security software installed on compute infrastructure, such as the AWS CloudWatch agent, Azure VM Agent, and Google Cloud Monitor agent. These agents may collect metrics and logs from the VM, which may be centrally aggregated in a cloud-based monitoring platform.

### Groups

- [APT38](/apt0082)
- [APT42](/apt1044)
- [Aquatic Panda](/apt0143)
- [BlackByte](/apt1043)
- [Cobalt Group](/apt0080)
- [Darkhotel](/apt0012)
- [FIN8](/apt0061)
- [Gamaredon Group](/apt0047)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [Malteiro](/apt1026)
- [Medusa Group](/apt1051)
- [MuddyWater](/apt0069)
- [Naikon](/apt0019)
- [Patchwork](/apt0040)
- [Play](/play)
- [Rocke](/apt0106)
- [SideCopy](/apt1008)
- [Sidewinder](/apt0121)
- [Storm-0501](/apt1053)
- [TA2541](/apt1018)
- [TeamTNT](/apt0139)
- [The White Company](/apt0089)
- [ToddyCat](/apt1022)
- [Tropic Trooper](/apt0081)
- [Turla](/apt0010)
- [Windshift](/apt0112)
- [Wizard Spider](/wizard-spider)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
