---
layout: technique
title: Udev Rules
mitre_id: T1546.017
permalink: "/techniques/T1546.017/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/017
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1546
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may maintain persistence through executing malicious
  content triggered using udev rules. Udev is the Linux kernel device manager that
  dynamically manages device nodes, handles access to pseudo-device files in the `/dev`
  directory, and responds to hardware events, such '
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may maintain persistence through executing malicious content triggered using udev rules. Udev is the Linux kernel device manager that dynamically manages device nodes, handles access to pseudo-device files in the `/dev` directory, and responds to hardware events, such as when external devices like hard drives or keyboards are plugged in or removed. Udev uses rule files with `match keys` to specify the conditions a hardware event must meet and `action keys` to define the actions that should follow. Root permissions are required to create, modify, or delete rule files located in `/etc/udev/rules.d/`, `/run/udev/rules.d/`, `/usr/lib/udev/rules.d/`, `/usr/local/lib/udev/rules.d/`, and `/lib/udev/rules.d/`. Rule priority is determined by both directory and by the digit prefix in the rule filename. [Ignacio Udev research 2024](https://ch4ik0.github.io/en/posts/leveraging-Linux-udev-for-persistence/) [Elastic Linux Persistence 2024](https://www.elastic.co/security-labs/sequel-on-persistence-mechanisms) 

Adversaries may abuse the udev subsystem by adding or modifying rules in udev rule files to execute malicious content. For example, an adversary may configure a rule to execute their binary each time the pseudo-device file, such as `/dev/random`, is accessed by an application. Although udev is limited to running short tasks and is restricted by systemd-udevd's sandbox (blocking network and filesystem access), attackers may use scripting commands under the action key `RUN+=` to detach and run the malicious content’s process in the background to bypass these controls. [Reichert aon sedexp 2024](https://www.aon.com/en/insights/cyber-labs/unveiling-sedexp) 


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
