---
layout: technique
title: Kernel Modules and Extensions
mitre_id: T1547.006
permalink: "/techniques/T1547.006/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/006
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1547
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs
  on system boot. Loadable Kernel Modules (LKMs) are pieces of code that can be loaded
  and unloaded into the kernel upon demand. They extend the functionality of the kernel
  without the need to reboot the system. For
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs on system boot. Loadable Kernel Modules (LKMs) are pieces of code that can be loaded and unloaded into the kernel upon demand. They extend the functionality of the kernel without the need to reboot the system. For example, one type of module is the device driver, which allows the kernel to access hardware connected to the system. [Linux Kernel Programming](https://www.tldp.org/LDP/lkmpg/2.4/lkmpg.pdf)  

When used maliciously, LKMs can be a type of kernel-mode Rootkit that run with the highest operating system privilege (Ring 0). [Linux Kernel Module Programming Guide](https://tldp.org/LDP/lkmpg/2.4/html/x437.html)  Common features of LKM based rootkits include: hiding itself, selective hiding of files, processes and network activity, as well as log tampering, providing authenticated backdoors, and enabling root access to non-privileged users. [iDefense Rootkit Overview](https://www.megasecurity.org/papers/Rootkits.pdf) 

Kernel extensions, also called kext, are used in macOS to load functionality onto a system similar to LKMs for Linux. Since the kernel is responsible for enforcing security and the kernel extensions run as apart of the kernel, kexts are not governed by macOS security policies. Kexts are loaded and unloaded through <code>kextload</code> and <code>kextunload</code> commands. Kexts need to be signed with a developer ID that is granted privileges by Apple allowing it to sign Kernel extensions. Developers without these privileges may still sign kexts but they will not load unless SIP is disabled. If SIP is enabled, the kext signature is verified before being added to the AuxKC. [System and kernel extensions in macOS](https://support.apple.com/guide/deployment/system-and-kernel-extensions-in-macos-depa5fb8376f/web) 

Since macOS Catalina 10.15, kernel extensions have been deprecated in favor of System Extensions. However, kexts are still allowed as "Legacy System Extensions" since there is no System Extension for Kernel Programming Interfaces. [Apple Kernel Extension Deprecation](https://developer.apple.com/support/kernel-extensions/) 

Adversaries can use LKMs and kexts to conduct Persistence and/or Privilege Escalation on a system. Exam...

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)
- [Antivirus/Antimalware](/mitigations/M1049/) (`M1049`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
