---
layout: technique
title: Shortcut Modification
mitre_id: T1547.009
permalink: "/techniques/T1547.009/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/009
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1547
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may create or modify shortcuts that can execute
  a program during system boot or user login. Shortcuts or symbolic links are used
  to reference other files or programs that will be opened or executed when the shortcut
  is clicked or executed by a system startup process.\n\n"
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may create or modify shortcuts that can execute a program during system boot or user login. Shortcuts or symbolic links are used to reference other files or programs that will be opened or executed when the shortcut is clicked or executed by a system startup process.

Adversaries may abuse shortcuts in the startup folder to execute their tools and achieve persistence. [Shortcut for Persistence](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/7.17/shortcut-file-written-or-modified-for-persistence.html#shortcut-file-written-or-modified-for-persistence) Although often used as payloads in an infection chain (e.g. Spearphishing Attachment), adversaries may also create a new shortcut as a means of indirection, while also abusing Masquerading to make the malicious shortcut appear as a legitimate program. Adversaries can also edit the target path or entirely replace an existing shortcut so their malware will be executed instead of the intended legitimate program.

Shortcuts can also be abused to establish persistence by implementing other methods. For example, LNK browser extensions may be modified (e.g. Browser Extensions) to persistently launch malware.

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Restrict File and Directory Permissions](/mitigations/M1022/) (`M1022`)
- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)

### Groups

- [APT39](/apt0087)
- [Gorgon Group](/apt0078)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [Leviathan](/apt40)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
