---
layout: technique
title: Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder
mitre_id: T1547.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1547.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/001
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1547
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may achieve persistence by adding a program to a startup folder or referencing it with a Registry run key. Adding an entry to the "run keys" in the Registry or startup folder will cause the program referenced to be executed when a user logs in. [Microsoft Run Key](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/setupapi/run-and-runonce-registry-keys) These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.

The following run keys are created by default on Windows systems:

* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run</code>
* <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce</code>

Run keys may exist under multiple hives. [Microsoft Wow6432Node 2018](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/sysinfo/32-bit-and-64-bit-application-data-in-the-registry) [Malwarebytes Wow6432Node 2016](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/cybercrime/2013/10/hiding-in-plain-sight/) The <code>HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx</code> is also available but is not created by default on Windows Vista and newer. Registry run key entries can reference programs directly or list them as a dependency. [Microsoft Run Key](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/setupapi/run-and-runonce-registry-keys) For example, it is possible to load a DLL at logon using a "Depend" key with RunOnceEx: <code>reg add HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx\0001\Depend /v 1 /d "C:\temp\evil[.]dll"</code> [Oddvar Moe RunOnceEx Mar 2018](https://oddvar.moe/2018/03/21/persistence-using-runonceex-hidden-from-autoruns-exe/)

Placing a program within a startup folder will also cause that program to execute when a user logs in. There is a startup folder location for individual user accounts as well as a system-wide startup folder that will be checked regardless of which user account logs in. The startup folder path for the current user is <code>C:\Users\\[Username]\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup</code>. The startup folder path for all users is <code>C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\StartUp</code>.

The following R...

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
