---
layout: technique
title: Windows Service
mitre_id: T1543.003
permalink: "/techniques/T1543.003/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1543
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may create or modify Windows services to repeatedly
  execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When Windows boots up, it starts
  programs or applications called services that perform background system functions.(Citation:
  TechNet Services) Windows service config'
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may create or modify Windows services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When Windows boots up, it starts programs or applications called services that perform background system functions. [TechNet Services](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc772408.aspx) Windows service configuration information, including the file path to the service's executable or recovery programs/commands, is stored in the Windows Registry.

Adversaries may install a new service or modify an existing service to execute at startup in order to persist on a system. Service configurations can be set or modified using system utilities (such as sc.exe), by directly modifying the Registry, or by interacting directly with the Windows API. 

Adversaries may also use services to install and execute malicious drivers. For example, after dropping a driver file (ex: `.sys`) to disk, the payload can be loaded and registered via Native API functions such as `CreateServiceW()` (or manually via functions such as `ZwLoadDriver()` and `ZwSetValueKey()`), by creating the required service Registry values (i.e. Modify Registry), or by using command-line utilities such as `PnPUtil.exe`. [Symantec W.32 Stuxnet Dossier](https://www.wired.com/images_blogs/threatlevel/2010/11/w32_stuxnet_dossier.pdf) [Crowdstrike DriveSlayer February 2022](https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/how-crowdstrike-falcon-protects-against-wiper-malware-used-in-ukraine-attacks/) [Unit42 AcidBox June 2020](https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/acidbox-rare-malware/) Adversaries may leverage these drivers as Rootkits to hide the presence of malicious activity on a system. Adversaries may also load a signed yet vulnerable driver onto a compromised machine (known as "Bring Your Own Vulnerable Driver" (BYOVD)) as part of Exploitation for Privilege Escalation. [ESET InvisiMole June 2020](https://www.welivesecurity.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/ESET_InvisiMole.pdf) [Unit42 AcidBox June 2020](https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/acidbox-rare-malware/) 

Services may be created with administrator privileges but are executed under SYSTEM privileges, so an adversary may also use a service to escalate privileges. Adversaries may also directly start services through Service Execution.

To make detection analysis more challenging, malicious services may also incorporate Masquerade Task or Service (...

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Operating System Configuration](/mitigations/M1028/) (`M1028`)
- [Behavior Prevention on Endpoint](/mitigations/M1040/) (`M1040`)
- [Code Signing](/mitigations/M1045/) (`M1045`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M1047/) (`M1047`)

### Groups

- [Agrius](/apt1030)
- [APT19](/apt0073)
- [APT3](/apt0022)
- [APT32](/apt32)
- [APT38](/apt0082)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Aquatic Panda](/apt0143)
- [BlackByte](/apt1043)
- [Blue Mockingbird](/apt0108)
- [Carbanak](/fin7)
- [Cinnamon Tempest](/apt1021)
- [Cobalt Group](/apt0080)
- [DarkVishnya](/apt0105)
- [Earth Lusca](/apt1006)
- [FIN7](/fin7)
- [Ke3chang](/apt0004)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [Lotus Blossom](/apt0030)
- [Medusa Group](/apt1051)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [PROMETHIUM](/apt0056)
- [TeamTNT](/apt0139)
- [Threat Group-3390](/apt0027)
- [Tropic Trooper](/apt0081)
- [Wizard Spider](/wizard-spider)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
