---
layout: technique
title: PowerShell Profile
mitre_id: T1546.013
permalink: "/techniques/T1546.013/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/013
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1546
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0111
- TA0110
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may gain persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by PowerShell profiles. A PowerShell profile (<code>profile.ps1</code>) is a script that runs when PowerShell starts and can be used as a logon script to customize user environments.

PowerShell supports several profiles depending on the user or host program. For example, there can be different profiles for PowerShell host programs such as the PowerShell console, PowerShell ISE or Visual Studio Code. An administrator can also configure a profile that applies to all users and host programs on the local computer. [Microsoft About Profiles](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_profiles?view=powershell-6) 

Adversaries may modify these profiles to include arbitrary commands, functions, modules, and/or PowerShell drives to gain persistence. Every time a user opens a PowerShell session the modified script will be executed unless the <code>-NoProfile</code> flag is used when it is launched. [ESET Turla PowerShell May 2019](https://www.welivesecurity.com/2019/05/29/turla-powershell-usage/) 

An adversary may also be able to escalate privileges if a script in a PowerShell profile is loaded and executed by an account with higher privileges, such as a domain administrator. [Wits End and Shady PowerShell Profiles](https://witsendandshady.blogspot.com/2019/06/lab-notes-persistence-and-privilege.html)

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
