---
layout: technique
title: XDG Autostart Entries
mitre_id: T1547.013
permalink: "/techniques/T1547.013/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/013
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1547
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may add or modify XDG Autostart Entries to execute
  malicious programs or commands when a user’s desktop environment is loaded at login.
  XDG Autostart entries are available for any XDG-compliant Linux system. XDG Autostart
  entries use Desktop Entry files (`.desktop`) to
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may add or modify XDG Autostart Entries to execute malicious programs or commands when a user’s desktop environment is loaded at login. XDG Autostart entries are available for any XDG-compliant Linux system. XDG Autostart entries use Desktop Entry files (`.desktop`) to configure the user’s desktop environment upon user login. These configuration files determine what applications launch upon user login, define associated applications to open specific file types, and define applications used to open removable media. [Free Desktop Application Autostart Feb 2006](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/autostart-spec/autostart-spec-latest.html) [Free Desktop Entry Keys](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/latest/recognized-keys.html) 

Adversaries may abuse this feature to establish persistence by adding a path to a malicious binary or command to the `Exec` directive in the `.desktop` configuration file. When the user’s desktop environment is loaded at user login, the `.desktop` files located in the XDG Autostart directories are automatically executed. System-wide Autostart entries are located in the `/etc/xdg/autostart` directory while the user entries are located in the `~/.config/autostart` directory.

Adversaries may combine this technique with Masquerading to blend malicious Autostart entries with legitimate programs. [Red Canary Netwire Linux 2022](https://redcanary.com/blog/netwire-remote-access-trojan-on-linux/) 

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Restrict File and Directory Permissions](/mitigations/M1022/) (`M1022`)
- [Limit Software Installation](/mitigations/M1033/) (`M1033`)

### Groups

- [Contagious Interview](/apt1052)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
