---
layout: technique
title: Systemd Service
mitre_id: T1543.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1543.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/002
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1543
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may create or modify systemd services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. Systemd is a system and service manager commonly used for managing background daemon processes (also known as services) and other system resources.(Citation: Linux man-pages: systemd January 2014) Systemd is the default initialization (init) system on many Linux distributions replacing legacy init systems, including SysVinit and Upstart, while remaining backwards compatible.  

Systemd utilizes unit configuration files with the `.service` file extension to encode information about a service's process. By default, system level unit files are stored in the `/systemd/system` directory of the root owned directories (`/`). User level unit files are stored in the `/systemd/user` directories of the user owned directories (`$HOME`).(Citation: lambert systemd 2022) 

Inside the `.service` unit files, the following directives are used to execute commands:(Citation: freedesktop systemd.service)  

* `ExecStart`, `ExecStartPre`, and `ExecStartPost` directives execute when a service is started manually by `systemctl` or on system start if the service is set to automatically start.
* `ExecReload` directive executes when a service restarts. 
* `ExecStop`, `ExecStopPre`, and `ExecStopPost` directives execute when a service is stopped.  

Adversaries have created new service files, altered the commands a `.service` file’s directive executes, and modified the user directive a `.service` file executes as, which could result in privilege escalation. Adversaries may also place symbolic links in these directories, enabling systemd to find these payloads regardless of where they reside on the filesystem.(Citation: Anomali Rocke March 2019)(Citation: airwalk backdoor unix systems)(Citation: Rapid7 Service Persistence 22JUNE2016) 

The `.service` file’s User directive can be used to run service as a specific user, which could result in privilege escalation based on specific u...

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
