---
layout: technique
title: Print Processors
mitre_id: T1547.012
permalink: "/techniques/T1547.012/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1547/012
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0111
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1547
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: |-
  Adversaries may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for persistence and/or privilege escalation. Print processors are DLLs that are loaded by the print spooler service, `spoolsv.exe`, during boot.(Citation: Microsoft Intro Print Processors)

  Adversaries
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for persistence and/or privilege escalation. Print processors are DLLs that are loaded by the print spooler service, `spoolsv.exe`, during boot. [Microsoft Intro Print Processors](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows-hardware/drivers/print/introduction-to-print-processors) 

Adversaries may abuse the print spooler service by adding print processors that load malicious DLLs at startup. A print processor can be installed through the <code>AddPrintProcessor</code> API call with an account that has <code>SeLoadDriverPrivilege</code> enabled. Alternatively, a print processor can be registered to the print spooler service by adding the <code>HKLM\SYSTEM\\[CurrentControlSet or ControlSet001]\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture: e.g., Windows x64]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\Driver</code> Registry key that points to the DLL.

For the malicious print processor to be correctly installed, the payload must be located in the dedicated system print-processor directory, that can be found with the <code>GetPrintProcessorDirectory</code> API call, or referenced via a relative path from this directory. [Microsoft AddPrintProcessor May 2018](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/printdocs/addprintprocessor) After the print processors are installed, the print spooler service, which starts during boot, must be restarted in order for them to run. [ESET PipeMon May 2020](https://www.welivesecurity.com/2020/05/21/no-game-over-winnti-group/) 

The print spooler service runs under SYSTEM level permissions, therefore print processors installed by an adversary may run under elevated privileges.

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)

### Groups

- [Earth Lusca](/apt1006)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
