---
layout: technique
title: Name Resolution Poisoning and SMB Relay
mitre_id: T1557.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1557.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1557/001
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1557
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0031
- TA0100
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

By responding to LLMNR/NBT-NS/mDNS network traffic, adversaries may spoof an authoritative source for name resolution to force communication with an adversary controlled system.[BlackCat ransomware](https://www.trendmicro.com/en_us/research/22/d/an-investigation-of-the-blackcat-ransomware.html) This activity may be used to collect or relay authentication materials. 

Link-Local Multicast Name Resolution (LLMNR) and NetBIOS Name Service (NBT-NS) are Microsoft Windows components that serve as alternate methods of host identification. LLMNR is based upon the Domain Name System (DNS) format and allows hosts on the same local link to perform name resolution for other hosts. NBT-NS identifies systems on a local network by their NetBIOS name.[Wikipedia LLMNR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Link-Local_Multicast_Name_Resolution)[TechNet NetBIOS](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/cc958811.aspx)

Multicast Domain Name System(mDNS) is a zero-configuration service used to resolve hostnames to IP addresses with “.local” as a top-level domain. MDNS is based upon Domain Name System (DNS) format and allows hosts on the same network segment to perform name resolution for other hosts, using multicast.[mDNS RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6762)

Adversaries can spoof an authoritative source for name resolution on a victim network by responding to LLMNR (UDP 5355)/NBT-NS (UDP 137)/mDNS (UDP 5353) traffic as if they know the identity of the requested host, effectively poisoning the service so that the victims will communicate with the adversary controlled system. If the requested host belongs to a resource that requires identification/authentication, the username and NTLMv2 hash will then be sent to the adversary controlled system. The adversary can then collect the hash information sent over the wire through tools that monitor the ports for traffic or through Network Sniffing and crack the hashes offline through Brute Force to obtain the plaintext passwords.

In some cases where an adversary has access to a system that is in the authentication path between systems or when automated scans that use credentials attempt to authenticate to an adversary controlled system, the NTLMv1/v2 hashes c...

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
