---
layout: technique
title: Gatekeeper Bypass
mitre_id: T1553.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1553.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1553/001
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1553
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may modify file attributes and subvert Gatekeeper functionality to evade user prompts and execute untrusted programs. Gatekeeper is a set of technologies that act as layer of Apple’s security model to ensure only trusted applications are executed on a host. Gatekeeper was built on top of File Quarantine in Snow Leopard (10.6, 2009) and has grown to include Code Signing, security policy compliance, Notarization, and more. Gatekeeper also treats applications running for the first time differently than reopened applications.[TheEclecticLightCompany Quarantine and the flag](https://eclecticlight.co/2020/10/29/quarantine-and-the-quarantine-flag/)[TheEclecticLightCompany apple notarization](https://eclecticlight.co/2020/08/28/how-notarization-works/)

Based on an opt-in system, when files are downloaded an extended attribute (xattr) called `com.apple.quarantine` (also known as a quarantine flag) can be set on the file by the application performing the download. Launch Services opens the application in a suspended state. For first run applications with the quarantine flag set, Gatekeeper executes the following functions:

1. Checks extended attribute – Gatekeeper checks for the quarantine flag, then provides an alert prompt to the user to allow or deny execution.[OceanLotus for OS X](https://www.alienvault.com/blogs/labs-research/oceanlotus-for-os-x-an-application-bundle-pretending-to-be-an-adobe-flash-update)[20 macOS Common Tools and Techniques](https://labs.sentinelone.com/20-common-tools-techniques-used-by-macos-threat-actors-malware/)

2. Checks System Policies - Gatekeeper checks the system security policy, allowing execution of apps downloaded from either just the App Store or the App Store and identified developers.

3. Code Signing – Gatekeeper checks for a valid code signature from an Apple Developer ID.

4. Notarization - Using the `api.apple-cloudkit.com` API, Gatekeeper reaches out to Apple servers to verify or pull down the notarization ticket and ensure the ticket is not revoked. Users can override notarization, which will result in a prompt of executing an “unauthorized app” and the security policy will be modified.

Adversaries can subvert one or multiple security controls within Gatekeeper checks through logic errors (e.g. Exploitation for Stealth), u...

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
