---
layout: technique
title: Hybrid Identity
mitre_id: T1556.007
permalink: "/techniques/T1556.007/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556/007
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1556
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
- TA0110
- TA0031
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may patch, modify, or otherwise backdoor cloud authentication processes that are tied to on-premises user identities in order to bypass typical authentication mechanisms, access credentials, and enable persistent access to accounts. 

Many organizations maintain hybrid user and device identities that are shared between on-premises and cloud-based environments. These can be maintained in a number of ways. For example, Microsoft Entra ID includes three options for synchronizing identities between Active Directory and Entra ID [Azure AD Hybrid Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/choose-ad-authn):

* Password Hash Synchronization (PHS), in which a privileged on-premises account synchronizes user password hashes between Active Directory and Entra ID, allowing authentication to Entra ID to take place entirely in the cloud 
* Pass Through Authentication (PTA), in which Entra ID authentication attempts are forwarded to an on-premises PTA agent, which validates the credentials against Active Directory 
* Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS), in which a trust relationship is established between Active Directory and Entra ID 

AD FS can also be used with other SaaS and cloud platforms such as AWS and GCP, which will hand off the authentication process to AD FS and receive a token containing the hybrid users’ identity and privileges. 

By modifying authentication processes tied to hybrid identities, an adversary may be able to establish persistent privileged access to cloud resources. For example, adversaries who compromise an on-premises server running a PTA agent may inject a malicious DLL into the `AzureADConnectAuthenticationAgentService` process that authorizes all attempts to authenticate to Entra ID, as well as records user credentials. [Azure AD Connect for Read Teamers](https://blog.xpnsec.com/azuread-connect-for-redteam/) [AADInternals Azure AD On-Prem to Cloud](https://o365blog.com/post/on-prem_admin/) In environments using AD FS, an adversary may edit the `Microsoft.IdentityServer.Servicehost` configuration file to load a malicious DLL that generates au...

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
