---
layout: technique
title: Password Filter DLL
mitre_id: T1556.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1556.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
- TA0110
- TA0031
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1556
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: "Adversaries may register malicious password filter dynamic link
  libraries (DLLs) into the authentication process to acquire user credentials as
  they are validated. \n\nWindows password filters are password policy enforcement
  mechanisms for both domain and local accounts. Filters are"
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may register malicious password filter dynamic link libraries (DLLs) into the authentication process to acquire user credentials as they are validated. 

Windows password filters are password policy enforcement mechanisms for both domain and local accounts. Filters are implemented as DLLs containing a method to validate potential passwords against password policies. Filter DLLs can be positioned on local computers for local accounts and/or domain controllers for domain accounts. Before registering new passwords in the Security Accounts Manager (SAM), the Local Security Authority (LSA) requests validation from each registered filter. Any potential changes cannot take effect until every registered filter acknowledges validation. 

Adversaries can register malicious password filters to harvest credentials from local computers and/or entire domains. To perform proper validation, filters must receive plain-text credentials from the LSA. A malicious password filter would receive these plain-text credentials every time a password request is made. [Carnal Ownage Password Filters Sept 2013](http://carnal0wnage.attackresearch.com/2013/09/stealing-passwords-every-time-they.html) 

### Mitigations

- [Operating System Configuration](/mitigations/M1028/) (`M1028`)

### Groups

- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [Strider](/apt0041)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
