---
layout: technique
title: DHCP Spoofing
mitre_id: T1557.003
permalink: "/techniques/T1557.003/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1557/003
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1557
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0031
- TA0100
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may redirect network traffic to adversary-owned systems by spoofing Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) traffic and acting as a malicious DHCP server on the victim network. By achieving the adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) position, adversaries may collect network communications, including passed credentials, especially those sent over insecure, unencrypted protocols. This may also enable follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniffing or Transmitted Data Manipulation.

DHCP is based on a client-server model and has two functionalities: a protocol for providing network configuration settings from a DHCP server to a client and a mechanism for allocating network addresses to clients.[rfc2131](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2131) The typical server-client interaction is as follows: 

1. The client broadcasts a `DISCOVER` message.

2. The server responds with an `OFFER` message, which includes an available network address. 

3. The client broadcasts a `REQUEST` message, which includes the network address offered. 

4. The server acknowledges with an `ACK` message and the client receives the network configuration parameters.

Adversaries may spoof as a rogue DHCP server on the victim network, from which legitimate hosts may receive malicious network configurations. For example, malware can act as a DHCP server and provide adversary-owned DNS servers to the victimized computers.[new_rogue_DHCP_serv_malware](https://isc.sans.edu/forums/diary/new+rogueDHCP+server+malware/6025/)[w32.tidserv.g](https://web.archive.org/web/20150923175837/http://www.symantec.com/security_response/writeup.jsp?docid=2009-032211-2952-99&tabid=2) Through the malicious network configurations, an adversary may achieve the AiTM position, route client traffic through adversary-controlled systems, and collect information from the client network.

DHCPv6 clients can receive network configuration information without being assigned an IP address by sending a <code>INFORMATION-REQUEST (code 11)</code> message to the <code>All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers</code> multicast address.[rfc3315](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3315) Adversaries may use their rogue DHCP server to respond to this request message with malicious netw...

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
