---
layout: technique
title: Spearphishing Link
mitre_id: T1566.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1566.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1566
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may send spearphishing emails with a malicious link
  in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing with a link is a specific
  variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that
  it employs the use of links to download malwa
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may send spearphishing emails with a malicious link in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing with a link is a specific variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of links to download malware contained in email, instead of attaching malicious files to the email itself, to avoid defenses that may inspect email attachments. Spearphishing may also involve social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source.

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this case, the malicious emails contain links. Generally, the links will be accompanied by social engineering text and require the user to actively click or copy and paste a URL into a browser, leveraging User Execution. The visited website may compromise the web browser using an exploit, or the user will be prompted to download applications, documents, zip files, or even executables depending on the pretext for the email in the first place.

Adversaries may also include links that are intended to interact directly with an email reader, including embedded images intended to exploit the end system directly. Additionally, adversaries may use seemingly benign links that abuse special characters to mimic legitimate websites (known as an "IDN homograph attack"). [CISA IDN ST05-016](https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/tips/ST05-016) URLs may also be obfuscated by taking advantage of quirks in the URL schema, such as the acceptance of integer- or hexadecimal-based hostname formats and the automatic discarding of text before an “@” symbol: for example, `hxxp://google.com@1157586937`. [Mandiant URL Obfuscation 2023](https://www.mandiant.com/resources/blog/url-obfuscation-schema-abuse) 

Adversaries may also utilize links to perform consent phishing/spearphishing campaigns to Steal Application Access Tokens that grant immediate access to the victim environment. For example, a user may be lured into granting adversaries permissions/access ...

### Mitigations

- [User Training](/mitigations/M1017/) (`M1017`)
- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Restrict Web-Based Content](/mitigations/M1021/) (`M1021`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M1047/) (`M1047`)
- [Software Configuration](/mitigations/M1054/) (`M1054`)

### Groups

- [APT-C-36](/apt0099)
- [APT1](/apt1)
- [APT29](/apt29)
- [APT3](/apt0022)
- [APT32](/apt32)
- [APT33](/apt0064)
- [APT39](/apt0087)
- [APT42](/apt1044)
- [BlackTech](/apt0098)
- [Cobalt Group](/apt0080)
- [Confucius](/apt0142)
- [Earth Lusca](/apt1006)
- [Elderwood](/apt0066)
- [Evilnum](/apt0120)
- [EXOTIC LILY](/apt1011)
- [FIN4](/apt0085)
- [FIN7](/fin7)
- [FIN8](/apt0061)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [LazyScripter](/apt0140)
- [Leviathan](/apt40)
- [LuminousMoth](/apt1014)
- [Machete](/apt0095)
- [Magic Hound](/apt35)
- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [Mofang](/apt0103)
- [Molerats](/apt0021)
- [MuddyWater](/apt0069)
- [Mustang Panda](/apt0129)
- [Mustard Tempest](/apt1020)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [Patchwork](/apt0040)
- [RedCurl](/apt1039)
- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)
- [Sidewinder](/apt0121)
- [Storm-1811](/apt1046)
- [TA2541](/apt1018)
- [TA505](/cl0p)
- [TA577](/apt1037)
- [Transparent Tribe](/apt0134)
- [Turla](/apt0010)
- [Windshift](/apt0112)
- [WIRTE](/apt0090)
- [Wizard Spider](/wizard-spider)
- [ZIRCONIUM](/apt0128)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
