---
layout: technique
title: Spearphishing via Service
mitre_id: T1566.003
permalink: "/techniques/T1566.003/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/003
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0108
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1566
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services
  in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing via service is a specific
  variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that
  it employs the use of third party servic
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing via service is a specific variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of third party services rather than directly via enterprise email channels. 

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries send messages through various social media services, personal webmail, and other non-enterprise controlled services. [Lookout Dark Caracal Jan 2018](https://info.lookout.com/rs/051-ESQ-475/images/Lookout_Dark-Caracal_srr_20180118_us_v.1.0.pdf) These services are more likely to have a less-strict security policy than an enterprise. As with most kinds of spearphishing, the goal is to generate rapport with the target or get the target's interest in some way. Adversaries will create fake social media accounts and message employees for potential job opportunities. Doing so allows a plausible reason for asking about services, policies, and software that's running in an environment. The adversary can then send malicious links or attachments through these services.

A common example is to build rapport with a target via social media, then send content to a personal webmail service that the target uses on their work computer. This allows an adversary to bypass some email restrictions on the work account, and the target is more likely to open the file since it's something they were expecting. If the payload doesn't work as expected, the adversary can continue normal communications and troubleshoot with the target on how to get it working.

### Mitigations

- [User Training](/mitigations/M1017/) (`M1017`)
- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Restrict Web-Based Content](/mitigations/M1021/) (`M1021`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M1047/) (`M1047`)
- [Antivirus/Antimalware](/mitigations/M1049/) (`M1049`)

### Groups

- [Ajax Security Team](/apt0130)
- [APT29](/apt29)
- [Contagious Interview](/apt1052)
- [CURIUM](/apt1012)
- [Dark Caracal](/apt0070)
- [EXOTIC LILY](/apt1011)
- [FIN6](/apt0037)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [Magic Hound](/apt35)
- [Moonstone Sleet](/apt1036)
- [OilRig](/apt34)
- [Storm-1811](/apt1046)
- [ToddyCat](/apt1022)
- [Windshift](/apt0112)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
