---
layout: technique
title: DLL
mitre_id: T1574.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1574.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/001
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
- TA0104
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1574
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may abuse dynamic-link library files (DLLs) in order
  to achieve persistence, escalate privileges, and evade defenses. DLLs are libraries
  that contain code and data that can be simultaneously utilized by multiple programs.
  While DLLs are not malicious by nature, they ca
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse dynamic-link library files (DLLs) in order to achieve persistence, escalate privileges, and evade defenses. DLLs are libraries that contain code and data that can be simultaneously utilized by multiple programs. While DLLs are not malicious by nature, they can be abused through mechanisms such as side-loading, hijacking search order, and phantom DLL hijacking. [unit 42](https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/dll-hijacking-techniques/) 

Specific ways DLLs are abused by adversaries include:

### DLL Sideloading
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads by planting and then invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).

Side-loading positions both the victim application and malicious payload(s) alongside each other. Adversaries likely use side-loading as a means of masking actions they perform under a legitimate, trusted, and potentially elevated system or software process. Benign executables used to side-load payloads may not be flagged during delivery and/or execution. Adversary payloads may also be encrypted/packed or otherwise obfuscated until loaded into the memory of the trusted process.

Adversaries may also side-load other packages, such as BPLs (Borland Package Library). [kroll bpl](https://www.kroll.com/en/insights/publications/cyber/idatloader-distribution) 

Adversaries may chain DLL sideloading multiple times to fragment functionality hindering analysis. Adversaries using multiple DLL files can split the loader functions across different DLLs, with a main DLL loading the separated export functions. [Virus Bulletin](https://www.virusbulletin.com/conference/vb2023/abstracts/unveiling-activities-tropic-trooper-2023-deep-analysis-xiangoop-loader-and-entryshell-payload/) Spreading loader functions across multiple DLLs makes analysis harder, since all files must be collected to fully understand the malware’s behavior. Another method implements a “loader-for-a-loader”, where a malicious DLL’s sole role is to load a second DLL (or a chain of DLLs) that contain the real payload. [Sophos](https://news.sophos.com/en-us/2023/05/03/doubled-dll-sideloading-dragon-breath/) 

### DLL Search Order Hijacking
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the...

### Mitigations

- [Application Developer Guidance](/mitigations/M1013/) (`M1013`)
- [Execution Prevention](/mitigations/M1038/) (`M1038`)
- [Restrict Library Loading](/mitigations/M1044/) (`M1044`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M1047/) (`M1047`)
- [Update Software](/mitigations/M1051/) (`M1051`)

### Groups

- [APT-C-36](/apt0099)
- [APT19](/apt0073)
- [APT3](/apt0022)
- [APT32](/apt32)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Aquatic Panda](/apt0143)
- [BackdoorDiplomacy](/apt0135)
- [BlackTech](/apt0098)
- [BRONZE BUTLER](/apt0060)
- [Chimera](/apt0114)
- [Cinnamon Tempest](/apt1021)
- [Daggerfly](/apt1034)
- [Earth Lusca](/apt1006)
- [Evilnum](/apt0120)
- [FIN13](/apt1016)
- [GALLIUM](/apt0093)
- [Higaisa](/apt0126)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [LuminousMoth](/apt1014)
- [menuPass](/apt0045)
- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [MuddyWater](/apt0069)
- [Mustang Panda](/apt0129)
- [Naikon](/apt0019)
- [Patchwork](/apt0040)
- [RTM](/apt0048)
- [SideCopy](/apt1008)
- [Sidewinder](/apt0121)
- [Storm-1811](/apt1046)
- [Threat Group-3390](/apt0027)
- [Tonto Team](/apt0131)
- [Tropic Trooper](/apt0081)
- [Velvet Ant](/apt1047)
- [Whitefly](/apt0107)
- [WIRTE](/apt0090)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
