---
layout: technique
title: Compromise Infrastructure
mitre_id: T1584
permalink: "/techniques/T1584/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584
domains:
- enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0042
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may compromise third-party infrastructure that can be used during targeting. Infrastructure solutions include physical or cloud servers, domains, network devices, and third-party web and DNS services. Instead of buying, leasing, or renting infrastructure an adversary may compromise infrastructure and use it during other phases of the adversary lifecycle.(Citation: Mandiant APT1)(Citation: ICANNDomainNameHijacking)(Citation: Talos DNSpionage Nov 2018)(Citation: FireEye EPS Awakens Part 2) Additionally, adversaries may compromise numerous machines to form a botnet they can leverage.

Use of compromised infrastructure allows adversaries to stage, launch, and execute operations. Compromised infrastructure can help adversary operations blend in with traffic that is seen as normal, such as contact with high reputation or trusted sites. For example, adversaries may leverage compromised infrastructure (potentially also in conjunction with Digital Certificates) to further blend in and support staged information gathering and/or Phishing campaigns.(Citation: FireEye DNS Hijack 2019) Adversaries may also compromise numerous machines to support Proxy and/or proxyware services or to form a botnet.(Citation: amnesty_nso_pegasus)(Citation: Sysdig Proxyjacking) Additionally, adversaries may compromise infrastructure residing in close proximity to a target in order to gain Initial Access via Wi-Fi Networks.(Citation: Nearest Neighbor Volexity)

By using compromised infrastructure, adversaries may enable follow-on malicious operations. Prior to targeting, adversaries may also compromise the infrastructure of other adversaries.(Citation: NSA NCSC Turla OilRig)

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
