---
layout: technique
title: Digital Certificates
mitre_id: T1588.004
permalink: "/techniques/T1588.004/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/004
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0042
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1588
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may buy and/or steal SSL/TLS certificates that can
  be used during targeting. SSL/TLS certificates are designed to instill trust. They
  include information about the key, information about its owner's identity, and the
  digital signature of an entity that has verified the
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may buy and/or steal SSL/TLS certificates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS certificates are designed to instill trust. They include information about the key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has verified the certificate's contents are correct. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certificate trusts the signer, then they know they can use that key to communicate with its owner.

Adversaries may purchase or steal SSL/TLS certificates to further their operations, such as encrypting C2 traffic (ex: Asymmetric Cryptography with Web Protocols) or even enabling Adversary-in-the-Middle if the certificate is trusted or otherwise added to the root of trust (i.e. Install Root Certificate). The purchase of digital certificates may be done using a front organization or using information stolen from a previously compromised entity that allows the adversary to validate to a certificate provider as that entity. Adversaries may also steal certificate materials directly from a compromised third-party, including from certificate authorities. [DiginotarCompromise](https://threatpost.com/final-report-diginotar-hack-shows-total-compromise-ca-servers-103112/77170/) Adversaries may register or hijack domains that they will later purchase an SSL/TLS certificate for.

Certificate authorities exist that allow adversaries to acquire SSL/TLS certificates, such as domain validation certificates, for free. [Let's Encrypt FAQ](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/faq/) 

After obtaining a digital certificate, an adversary may then install that certificate (see Install Digital Certificate) on infrastructure under their control.

### Mitigations

- [Pre-compromise](/mitigations/M1056/) (`M1056`)

### Groups

- [BlackTech](/apt0098)
- [Lazarus Group](/lazarus)
- [LuminousMoth](/apt1014)
- [Mustang Panda](/apt0129)
- [Sea Turtle](/apt1041)
- [Silent Librarian](/apt0122)
- [UNC3886](/apt1048)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
