---
layout: technique
title: Web Services
mitre_id: T1584.006
permalink: "/techniques/T1584.006/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584/006
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0042
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1584
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may compromise access to third-party web services that
  can be used during targeting. A variety of popular websites exist for legitimate
  users to register for web-based services, such as GitHub, Twitter, Dropbox, Google,
  SendGrid, etc. Adversaries may try to take owners
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may compromise access to third-party web services that can be used during targeting. A variety of popular websites exist for legitimate users to register for web-based services, such as GitHub, Twitter, Dropbox, Google, SendGrid, etc. Adversaries may try to take ownership of a legitimate user's access to a web service and use that web service as infrastructure in support of cyber operations. Such web services can be abused during later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control (Web Service), Exfiltration Over Web Service, or Phishing. [Recorded Future Turla Infra 2020](https://www.recordedfuture.com/research/turla-apt-infrastructure) Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. By utilizing a web service, particularly when access is stolen from legitimate users, adversaries can make it difficult to physically tie back operations to them. Additionally, leveraging compromised web-based email services may allow adversaries to leverage the trust associated with legitimate domains.

### Mitigations

- [Pre-compromise](/mitigations/M1056/) (`M1056`)

### Groups

- [CURIUM](/apt1012)
- [Earth Lusca](/apt1006)
- [Turla](/apt0010)
- [Winter Vivern](/apt1035)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
