---
layout: technique
title: Search Victim-Owned Websites
mitre_id: T1594
permalink: "/techniques/T1594/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1594
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0043
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may search websites owned by the victim for information
  that can be used during targeting. Victim-owned websites may contain a variety of
  details, including names of departments/divisions, physical locations, and data
  about key employees such as names, roles, and conta
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may search websites owned by the victim for information that can be used during targeting. Victim-owned websites may contain a variety of details, including names of departments/divisions, physical locations, and data about key employees such as names, roles, and contact info (ex: Email Addresses). These sites may also have details highlighting business operations and relationships. [Comparitech Leak](https://www.comparitech.com/blog/vpn-privacy/350-million-customer-records-exposed-online/) 

Adversaries may search victim-owned websites to gather actionable information. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Trusted Relationship or Phishing).

In addition to manually browsing the website, adversaries may attempt to identify hidden directories or files that could contain additional sensitive information or vulnerable functionality. They may do this through automated activities such as Wordlist Scanning, as well as by leveraging files such as sitemap.xml and robots.txt. [Perez Sitemap XML 2023](https://medium.com/@adimenia/how-attackers-can-misuse-sitemaps-to-enumerate-users-and-discover-sensitive-information-361a5065857a) [Register Robots TXT 2015](https://www.theregister.com/2015/05/19/robotstxt/) 

### Mitigations

- [Pre-compromise](/mitigations/M1056/) (`M1056`)

### Groups

- [EXOTIC LILY](/apt1011)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [Sandworm Team](/apt0034)
- [Silent Librarian](/apt0122)
- [TA578](/apt1038)
- [Volt Typhoon](/apt1017)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
