---
layout: technique
title: Network Boundary Bridging
mitre_id: T1599
permalink: "/techniques/T1599/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1599
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may bridge network boundaries by compromising perimeter
  network devices or internal devices responsible for network segmentation. Breaching
  these devices may enable an adversary to bypass restrictions on traffic routing
  that otherwise separate trusted and untrusted net
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may bridge network boundaries by compromising perimeter network devices or internal devices responsible for network segmentation. Breaching these devices may enable an adversary to bypass restrictions on traffic routing that otherwise separate trusted and untrusted networks.

Devices such as routers and firewalls can be used to create boundaries between trusted and untrusted networks. They achieve this by restricting traffic types to enforce organizational policy in an attempt to reduce the risk inherent in such connections. Restriction of traffic can be achieved by prohibiting IP addresses, layer 4 protocol ports, or through deep packet inspection to identify applications. To participate with the rest of the network, these devices can be directly addressable or transparent, but their mode of operation has no bearing on how the adversary can bypass them when compromised.

When an adversary takes control of such a boundary device, they can bypass its policy enforcement to pass normally prohibited traffic across the trust boundary between the two separated networks without hinderance. By achieving sufficient rights on the device, an adversary can reconfigure the device to allow the traffic they want, allowing them to then further achieve goals such as command and control via Multi-hop Proxy or exfiltration of data via Traffic Duplication. Adversaries may also target internal devices responsible for network segmentation and abuse these in conjunction with Internal Proxy to achieve the same goals. [Kaspersky ThreatNeedle Feb 2021](https://securelist.com/lazarus-threatneedle/100803/) In the cases where a border device separates two separate organizations, the adversary can also facilitate lateral movement into new victim environments.

### Sub-techniques

- [Network Address Translation Traversal](/techniques/T1599.001/) (`T1599.001`)

### Mitigations

- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Password Policies](/mitigations/M1027/) (`M1027`)
- [Multi-factor Authentication](/mitigations/M1032/) (`M1032`)
- [Filter Network Traffic](/mitigations/M1037/) (`M1037`)
- [Credential Access Protection](/mitigations/M1043/) (`M1043`)

### Groups

- [APT41](/apt41)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
