---
layout: technique
title: Wordlist Scanning
mitre_id: T1595.003
permalink: "/techniques/T1595.003/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1595/003
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0043
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1595
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may iteratively probe infrastructure using brute-forcing
  and crawling techniques. While this technique employs similar methods to Brute Force,
  its goal is the identification of content and infrastructure rather than the discovery
  of valid credentials. Wordlists used in
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may iteratively probe infrastructure using brute-forcing and crawling techniques. While this technique employs similar methods to Brute Force, its goal is the identification of content and infrastructure rather than the discovery of valid credentials. Wordlists used in these scans may contain generic, commonly used names and file extensions or terms specific to a particular software. Adversaries may also create custom, target-specific wordlists using data gathered from other Reconnaissance techniques (ex: Gather Victim Org Information, or Search Victim-Owned Websites).

For example, adversaries may use web content discovery tools such as Dirb, DirBuster, and GoBuster and generic or custom wordlists to enumerate a website’s pages and directories. [ClearSky Lebanese Cedar Jan 2021](https://www.clearskysec.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/Lebanese-Cedar-APT.pdf) This can help them to discover old, vulnerable pages or hidden administrative portals that could become the target of further operations (ex: Exploit Public-Facing Application or Brute Force). 

As cloud storage solutions typically use globally unique names, adversaries may also use target-specific wordlists and tools such as s3recon and GCPBucketBrute to enumerate public and private buckets on cloud infrastructure. [S3Recon GitHub](https://github.com/clarketm/s3recon) [GCPBucketBrute](https://rhinosecuritylabs.com/gcp/google-cloud-platform-gcp-bucket-enumeration/) Once storage objects are discovered, adversaries may leverage Data from Cloud Storage to access valuable information that can be exfiltrated or used to escalate privileges and move laterally. 

### Mitigations

- [Disable or Remove Feature or Program](/mitigations/M1042/) (`M1042`)
- [Pre-compromise](/mitigations/M1056/) (`M1056`)

### Groups

- [APT41](/apt41)
- [Volatile Cedar](/apt0123)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
