---
layout: technique
title: Spearphishing Attachment
mitre_id: T1598.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1598.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1598/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0043
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1598
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may send spearphishing messages with a malicious
  attachment to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing
  for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently
  credentials or other actionable informatio
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may send spearphishing messages with a malicious attachment to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages.

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries attach a file to the spearphishing email. In some cases, they may rely upon the recipient populating information, then returning the file. [Sophos Attachment](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2020/10/02/serious-security-phishing-without-links-when-phishers-bring-along-their-own-web-pages/) [GitHub Phishery](https://github.com/ryhanson/phishery) The text of the spearphishing email usually tries to give a plausible reason why the file should be filled-in, such as a request for information from a business associate. In other cases, adversaries may leverage techniques such as HTML Smuggling to harvest user credentials via fake login portals. [Huntress HTML Smuggling 2024](https://www.huntress.com/blog/smugglers-gambit-uncovering-html-smuggling-adversary-in-the-middle-tradecraft) 

Adversaries may also use information from previous reconnaissance efforts (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Victim-Owned Websites) to craft persuasive and believable lures.

### Mitigations

- [User Training](/mitigations/M1017/) (`M1017`)
- [Software Configuration](/mitigations/M1054/) (`M1054`)

### Groups

- [Dragonfly](/apt0035)
- [SideCopy](/apt1008)
- [Sidewinder](/apt0121)
- [Star Blizzard](/apt1033)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
