---
layout: technique
title: Downgrade System Image
mitre_id: T1601.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1601.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601/002
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1601
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may install an older version of the operating system
  of a network device to weaken security.  Older operating system versions on network
  devices often have weaker encryption ciphers and, in general, fewer/less updated
  defensive features. (Citation: Cisco Synful Knock E'
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may install an older version of the operating system of a network device to weaken security. Older operating system versions on network devices often have weaker encryption ciphers and, in general, fewer/less updated defensive features. [Cisco Synful Knock Evolution](https://blogs.cisco.com/security/evolution-of-attacks-on-cisco-ios-devices) 

On embedded devices, downgrading the version typically only requires replacing the operating system file in storage. With most embedded devices, this can be achieved by downloading a copy of the desired version of the operating system file and reconfiguring the device to boot from that file on next system restart. The adversary could then restart the device to implement the change immediately or they could wait until the next time the system restarts.

Downgrading the system image to an older versions may allow an adversary to evade defenses by enabling behaviors such as Weaken Encryption. Downgrading of a system image can be done on its own, or it can be used in conjunction with Patch System Image. 

### Mitigations

- [Privileged Account Management](/mitigations/M1026/) (`M1026`)
- [Password Policies](/mitigations/M1027/) (`M1027`)
- [Multi-factor Authentication](/mitigations/M1032/) (`M1032`)
- [Credential Access Protection](/mitigations/M1043/) (`M1043`)
- [Code Signing](/mitigations/M1045/) (`M1045`)
- [Boot Integrity](/mitigations/M1046/) (`M1046`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
