---
layout: technique
title: Prevent Application Removal
mitre_id: T1629.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1629.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1629/001
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
tactic_ids:
- TA0030
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1629
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may abuse the Android device administration API to
  prevent the user from uninstalling a target application. In earlier versions of
  Android, device administrator applications needed their administration capabilities
  explicitly deactivated by the user before the applicat
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse the Android device administration API to prevent the user from uninstalling a target application. In earlier versions of Android, device administrator applications needed their administration capabilities explicitly deactivated by the user before the application could be uninstalled. This was later updated so the user could deactivate and uninstall the administrator application in one step.

Adversaries may also abuse the device accessibility APIs to prevent removal. This set of APIs allows the application to perform certain actions on behalf of the user and programmatically determine what is being shown on the screen. The malicious application could monitor the device screen for certain modals (e.g., the confirmation modal to uninstall an application) and inject screen input or a back button tap to close the modal. For example, Android's `performGlobalAction(int)` API could be utilized to prevent the user from removing the malicious application from the device after installation. If the user wants to uninstall the malicious application, two cases may occur, both preventing the user from removing the application.

* Case 1: If the integer argument passed to the API call is `2` or `GLOBAL_ACTION_HOME`, the malicious application may direct the user to the home screen from settings screen 

* Case 2: If the integer argument passed to the API call is `1` or `GLOBAL_ACTION_BACK`, the malicious application may emulate the back press event 

### Mitigations

- [Use Recent OS Version](/mitigations/M1006/) (`M1006`)
- [User Guidance](/mitigations/M1011/) (`M1011`)
- [Enterprise Policy](/mitigations/M1012/) (`M1012`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
