---
layout: technique
title: Unix Shell
mitre_id: T1623.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1623.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1623/001
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1623
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may abuse Unix shell commands and scripts for execution.
  Unix shells are the underlying command prompts on Android and iOS devices. Unix
  shells can control every aspect of a system, with certain commands requiring elevated
  privileges that are only accessible if the dev
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may abuse Unix shell commands and scripts for execution. Unix shells are the underlying command prompts on Android and iOS devices. Unix shells can control every aspect of a system, with certain commands requiring elevated privileges that are only accessible if the device has been rooted or jailbroken. 

Unix shells also support scripts that enable sequential execution of commands as well as other typical programming operations such as conditionals and loops. Common uses of shell scripts include long or repetitive tasks, or the need to run the same set of commands on multiple systems. 

Adversaries may abuse Unix shells to execute various commands or payloads. Interactive shells may be accessed through command and control channels or during lateral movement such as with SSH. Adversaries may also leverage shell scripts to deliver and execute multiple commands on victims or as part of payloads used for persistence. 

If the device has been rooted or jailbroken, adversaries may locate and invoke a superuser binary to elevate their privileges and interact with the system as the root user. This dangerous level of permissions allows the adversary to run special commands and modify protected system files. 

### Mitigations

- [Attestation](/mitigations/M1002/) (`M1002`)
- [Deploy Compromised Device Detection Method](/mitigations/M1010/) (`M1010`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
