---
layout: technique
title: Steal Application Access Token
mitre_id: T1635
permalink: "/techniques/T1635/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1635
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
tactic_ids:
- TA0031
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries can steal user application access tokens as a means
  of acquiring credentials to access remote systems and resources. This can occur
  through social engineering or URI hijacking and typically requires user action to
  grant access, such as through a system “Open With” dial
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries can steal user application access tokens as a means of acquiring credentials to access remote systems and resources. This can occur through social engineering or URI hijacking and typically requires user action to grant access, such as through a system “Open With” dialogue. 

Application access tokens are used to make authorized API requests on behalf of a user and are commonly used as a way to access resources in cloud-based applications and software-as-a-service (SaaS). [Auth0 - Why You Should Always Use Access Tokens to Secure APIs Sept 2019](https://auth0.com/blog/why-should-use-accesstokens-to-secure-an-api/) OAuth is one commonly implemented framework used to issue tokens to users for access to systems. An application desiring access to cloud-based services or protected APIs can gain entry through OAuth 2.0 using a variety of authorization protocols. An example of a commonly-used sequence is Microsoft's Authorization Code Grant flow. [Microsoft Identity Platform Protocols May 2019](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-v2-protocols) [Microsoft - OAuth Code Authorization flow - June 2019](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow) An OAuth access token enables a third-party application to interact with resources containing user data in the ways requested without requiring user credentials.

### Sub-techniques

- [URI Hijacking](/techniques/T1635.001/) (`T1635.001`)

### Mitigations

- [Use Recent OS Version](/mitigations/M1006/) (`M1006`)
- [User Guidance](/mitigations/M1011/) (`M1011`)
- [Application Developer Guidance](/mitigations/M1013/) (`M1013`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
