---
layout: technique
title: Ptrace System Calls
mitre_id: T1631.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1631.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1631/001
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
parent_mitre_id: T1631
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
attack_version: '19.0'
tactic_ids:
- TA0030
- TA0111
---

## Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Ptrace system call injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.  

Ptrace system call injection involves attaching to and modifying a running process. The ptrace system call enables a debugging process to observe and control another process (and each individual thread), including changing memory and register values.(Citation: PTRACE man) Ptrace system call injection is commonly performed by writing arbitrary code into a running process (e.g., by using `malloc`) then invoking that memory with `PTRACE_SETREGS` to set the register containing the next instruction to execute. Ptrace system call injection can also be done with `PTRACE_POKETEXT`/`PTRACE_POKEDATA`, which copy data to a specific address in the target process's memory (e.g., the current address of the next instruction).(Citation: PTRACE man)(Citation: Medium Ptrace JUL 2018)  

Ptrace system call injection may not be possible when targeting processes with high-privileges, and on some systems those that are non-child processes.(Citation: BH Linux Inject)  

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via ptrace system call injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
