---
layout: technique
title: Exploitation for Client Execution
mitre_id: T1658
permalink: "/techniques/T1658/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1658
domains:
- mobile
domain: mobile
tactic_ids:
- TA0104
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in client applications
  to execute code. Vulnerabilities can exist in software due to insecure coding practices
  that can lead to unanticipated behavior. Adversaries may take advantage of certain
  vulnerabilities through targeted explo
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in client applications to execute code. Vulnerabilities can exist in software due to insecure coding practices that can lead to unanticipated behavior. Adversaries may take advantage of certain vulnerabilities through targeted exploitation for the purpose of arbitrary code execution. Oftentimes the most valuable exploits to an offensive toolkit are those that can be used to obtain code execution on a remote system because they can be used to gain access to that system. Users will expect to see files related to the applications they commonly used to do work, so they are a useful target for exploit research and development because of their high utility. 

Adversaries may use device-based zero-click exploits for code execution. These exploits are powerful because there is no user interaction required for code execution. 

### SMS/iMessage Delivery 

SMS and iMessage in iOS are common targets through Drive-By Compromise, Phishing, etc. Adversaries may use embed malicious links, files, etc. in SMS messages or iMessages. Mobile devices may be compromised through one-click exploits, where the victim must interact with a text message, or zero-click exploits, where no user interaction is required. 

### AirDrop 

Unique to iOS, AirDrop is a network protocol that allows iOS users to transfer files between iOS devices. Before patches from Apple were released, on iOS 13.4 and earlier, adversaries may force the Apple Wireless Direct Link (AWDL) interface to activate, then exploit a buffer overflow to gain access to the device and run as root without interaction from the user. 

### Mitigations

- [Security Updates](/mitigations/M1001/) (`M1001`)
- [User Guidance](/mitigations/M1011/) (`M1011`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
