---
layout: technique
title: Wi-Fi Networks
mitre_id: T1669
permalink: "/techniques/T1669/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1669
domains:
- enterprise
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0108
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may gain initial access to target systems by connecting to wireless networks. They may accomplish this by exploiting open Wi-Fi networks used by target devices or by accessing secured Wi-Fi networks — requiring Valid Accounts — belonging to a target organization.(Citation: DOJ GRU Charges 2018)(Citation: Nearest Neighbor Volexity) Establishing a connection to a Wi-Fi access point requires a certain level of proximity to both discover and maintain a stable network connection. 

Adversaries may establish a wireless connection through various methods, such as by physically positioning themselves near a Wi-Fi network to conduct close access operations. To bypass the need for physical proximity, adversaries may attempt to remotely compromise nearby third-party systems that have both wired and wireless network connections available (i.e., dual-homed systems). These third-party compromised devices can then serve as a bridge to connect to a target’s Wi-Fi network.(Citation: Nearest Neighbor Volexity)

Once an initial wireless connection is achieved, adversaries may leverage this access for follow-on activities in the victim network or further targeting of specific devices on the network. Adversaries may perform Network Sniffing or Adversary-in-the-Middle activities for Credential Access or Discovery.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
