---
layout: technique
title: Network Device Firewall
mitre_id: T1686.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1686.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1686/002
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1686
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may disable network device-based firewall mechanisms entirely or add, delete, or modify particular rules in order to bypass controls limiting network usage.  

Adversaries may obtain access to devices such as routers, switches, or other perimeter/network devices and change access control lists (ACLs), security zones, or policy rules to permit otherwise blocked traffic. For example, adversaries may add new network firewall rules to allow access to all internal network subnets without restrictions. Allowing access to internal network subsets may enable unrestricted inbound/outbound connectivity or open paths for command and control and lateral movement.

Adversaries may obtain access to network device management interfaces via Valid Accounts or by exploiting vulnerabilities. In some cases, threat actors may target firewalls and other network infrastructure that are exposed to the internet by leveraging weaknesses in public-facing applications (Exploit Public-Facing Application).(Citation: CVE-2024-55591 Detail)

Adversaries may also modify host networking configurations that indirectly manipulate system firewalls, such as adjusting interface bandwidth or network connection request thresholds.

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
