---
layout: technique
title: Disable or Modify Windows Event Log
mitre_id: T1685.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1685.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1685/001
domains:
- enterprise
parent_mitre_id: T1685
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may disable or modify the Windows Event Log to limit data that can be leveraged for detections and audits. Windows Event Log records user and system activity such as login attempts and process creation. [EventLog_Core_Technologies](https://www.coretechnologies.com/blog/windows-services/eventlog/) This data is used by security tools and analysts to generate detections. 

The EventLog service maintains event logs from various system components and applications. By default, the service automatically starts when a system powers on. An audit policy, maintained by the Local Security Policy (secpol.msc), defines which system events the EventLog service logs. Security audit policy settings can be changed by running secpol.msc, then navigating to `Security Settings\Local Policies\Audit Policy` for basic audit policy settings or `Security Settings\Advanced Audit Policy Configuration` for advanced audit policy settings. [Microsoft Audit Policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-10/security/threat-protection/security-policy-settings/audit-policy) [Microsoft Adv Security Settings](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-10/security/threat-protection/auditing/advanced-security-audit-policy-settings) `auditpol.exe` may also be used to set audit policies. [Microsoft auditpol](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/auditpol)

Adversaries may target system-wide logging or just that of a particular application. For example, the Windows EventLog service may be disabled using the `Set-Service -Name EventLog -Status Stopped` or `sc config eventlog start=disabled` commands (followed by manually stopping the service using `Stop-Service -Name EventLog`). Additionally, the service may be disabled by modifying the "Start" value in `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\EventLog` then restarting the system for the change to take effect. [Disable_Win_Event_Logging](https://dmcxblue.gitbook.io/red-team-notes-2-0/red-team-techniques/defense-evasion/t1562-impair-defenses/disable-windows-event-logging) [disable_win_evt_logging](https://ptylu.github.io/content/report/report.html?report=25)

There are several ways to disable the EventLog service via registry key modification. Without Administrator privileges, adversaries may modify the "Start" value in the key `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-Security`, then reboot the system to disable the Security EventLog.(Citation: winser19_file_overwrite_bug_twit...

## Threat actors

Threat actors in this project are listed below when their ATT&CK references cite this technique ID.


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
