---
layout: technique
title: Disable or Modify Linux Audit System Log
mitre_id: T1685.004
permalink: "/techniques/T1685.004/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1685/004
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0112
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1685
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may disable or modify the Linux Audit system to hide
  malicious activity and avoid detection. Linux admins use the Linux Audit system
  to track security-relevant information on a system. The Linux Audit system operates
  at the kernel-level and maintains event logs on appl
attack_version: '19.1'
---

## Description

Adversaries may disable or modify the Linux Audit system to hide malicious activity and avoid detection. Linux admins use the Linux Audit system to track security-relevant information on a system. The Linux Audit system operates at the kernel-level and maintains event logs on application and system activity such as process, network, file, and login events based on pre-configured rules. 

Often referred to as `auditd`, this is the name of the daemon used to write events to disk and is governed by the parameters set in the `audit.conf` configuration file. Two primary ways to configure the log generation rules are through the command line `auditctl` utility and the file `/etc/audit/audit.rules`, containing a sequence of `auditctl` commands loaded at boot time. [IzyKnows auditd threat detection 2022](https://izyknows.medium.com/linux-auditd-for-threat-detection-d06c8b941505) [Red Hat Linux Disable or Mod](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/security_guide/chap-system_auditing) 

With root privileges, adversaries may be able to ensure their activity is not logged through disabling the Audit system service, editing the configuration/rule files, or by hooking the Audit system library functions. Using the command line, adversaries can disable the Audit system service through killing processes associated with `auditd` daemon or use `systemctl` to stop the Audit service. Adversaries can also hook Audit system functions to disable logging or modify the rules contained in the `/etc/audit/audit.rules` or `audit.conf` files to ignore malicious activity. [ESET Ebury Feb 2014](https://www.welivesecurity.com/2014/02/21/an-in-depth-analysis-of-linuxebury/) 

### Mitigations

- [User Account Management](/mitigations/M1018/) (`M1018`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M1047/) (`M1047`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
