---
layout: technique
title: Impersonation
mitre_id: T1684.001
permalink: "/techniques/T1684.001/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1684/001
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0005
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1684
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: Adversaries may impersonate a trusted person or organization
  in order to persuade and trick a target into performing some action on their behalf.
  For example, adversaries may communicate with victims (via Phishing for Information,
  Phishing, or Internal Spearphishing) while imperso
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may impersonate a trusted person or organization in order to persuade and trick a target into performing some action on their behalf. For example, adversaries may communicate with victims (via Phishing for Information, Phishing, or Internal Spearphishing) while impersonating a known sender such as an executive, colleague, or third-party vendor. Established trust can then be leveraged to accomplish an adversary’s ultimate goals, possibly against multiple victims.

In many cases of business email compromise or email fraud campaigns, adversaries use impersonation to defraud victims -- deceiving them into sending money or divulging information that ultimately enables Financial Theft.

Adversaries will often also use social engineering techniques such as manipulative and persuasive language in email subject lines and body text such as `payment`, `request`, or `urgent` to push the victim to act quickly before malicious activity is detected. These campaigns are often specifically targeted against people who, due to job roles and/or accesses, can carry out the adversary’s goal.  

Impersonation is typically preceded by reconnaissance techniques such as Gather Victim Identity Information and Gather Victim Org Information as well as acquiring infrastructure such as email domains (i.e. Domains) to substantiate their false identity. [Crowdstrike BEC](https://www.crowdstrike.com/en-us/cybersecurity-101/threat-intelligence/business-email-compromise-bec/) 

There is the potential for multiple victims in campaigns involving impersonation. For example, an adversary may Compromise Accounts targeting one organization which can then be used to support impersonation against other entities. [VEC](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/email-security/what-is-vendor-email-compromise/#:~:text=Vendor%20email%20compromise%2C%20also%20referred,steal%20from%20that%20vendor%27s%20customers.) 

### Mitigations

- [User Training](/mitigations/M1017/) (`M1017`)
- [Threat Intelligence Program](/mitigations/M1019/) (`M1019`)

### Groups

- [APT-C-36](/apt0099)
- [APT28](/apt28)
- [APT41](/apt41)
- [APT42](/apt1044)
- [Contagious Interview](/apt1052)
- [Kimsuky](/apt0094)
- [LAPSUS$](/apt1004)
- [MirrorFace](/mirrorface)
- [MuddyWater](/apt0069)
- [Saint Bear](/apt1031)
- [Scattered Spider](/apt1015)
- [Star Blizzard](/apt1033)
- [Storm-1811](/apt1046)
- [VOID MANTICORE](/void-manticore)
- [WIRTE](/apt0090)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
