---
layout: technique
title: Generate Content
mitre_id: T1683
permalink: "/techniques/T1683/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1683
domains:
- enterprise
domain: enterprise
tactic_ids:
- TA0042
is_subtechnique: false
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: 'Adversaries may create or generate content to support targeting
  and operations. This content may be used to establish personas, impersonate known
  individuals or organizations, and support Social Engineering, fraud, or influence
  activities. Written materials, audio, images, video, '
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may create or generate content to support targeting and operations. This content may be used to establish personas, impersonate known individuals or organizations, and support Social Engineering, fraud, or influence activities. Written materials, audio, images, video, or other media may be developed and tailored to the target and objective. [IBM AI-Generated Content](https://www.ibm.com/think/insights/ai-generated-content) 

Content development may occur prior to or during an operation. Adversaries may develop or generate content in-house, source it through third parties, or produce it using AI-assisted tools. Adversaries may use AI to research targets, develop pretexts, and better understand the organizations and individuals they intend to target or deceive prior to generating content (i.e., Query Public AI Services); for obtaining access to AI tools used in content generation, see Artificial Intelligence. 

Content may be leveraged in support of techniques such as Phishing, Phishing for Information, Social Engineering, Financial Theft, or Establish Accounts. Generated or developed content does not include malicious code or scripts (i.e., Develop Capabilities and Artificial Intelligence).

### Sub-techniques

- [Written Content](/techniques/T1683.001/) (`T1683.001`)
- [Audio-Visual Content](/techniques/T1683.002/) (`T1683.002`)

### Mitigations

- [Pre-compromise](/mitigations/M1056/) (`M1056`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
