---
layout: technique
title: Module Firmware
mitre_id: T1693.002
permalink: "/techniques/T1693.002/"
mitre_url: https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1693/002
domains:
- ics
domain: ics
tactic_ids:
- TA0110
- TA0107
- TA0106
is_subtechnique: true
parent_mitre_id: T1693
source_attribution: "© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed
  with the permission of The MITRE Corporation."
description_excerpt: |-
  Adversaries may install malicious or vulnerable firmware onto modular hardware devices. Control system devices often contain modular hardware devices. These devices may have their own set of firmware that is separate from the firmware of the main control system equipment.

  This te
attack_version: '19.0'
---

## Description

Adversaries may install malicious or vulnerable firmware onto modular hardware devices. Control system devices often contain modular hardware devices. These devices may have their own set of firmware that is separate from the firmware of the main control system equipment.

This technique is similar to System Firmware, but is conducted on other system components that may not have the same capabilities or level of integrity checking. Although it results in a device re-image, malicious device firmware may provide persistent access to remaining devices. [Daniel Peck, Dale Peterson January 2009](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/228849043_Leveraging_ethernet_card_vulnerabilities_in_field_devices) 

An easy point of access for an adversary is the Ethernet card, which may have its own CPU, RAM, and operating system. The adversary may attack and likely exploit the computer on an Ethernet card. Exploitation of the Ethernet card computer may enable the adversary to accomplish additional attacks, such as the following: [Daniel Peck, Dale Peterson January 2009](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/228849043_Leveraging_ethernet_card_vulnerabilities_in_field_devices) 

* Delayed Attack - The adversary may stage an attack in advance and choose when to launch it, such as at a particularly damaging time.
* Brick the Ethernet Card - Malicious firmware may be programmed to result in an Ethernet card failure, requiring a factory return.
* Random Attack or Failure - The adversary may load malicious firmware onto multiple field devices. Execution of an attack and the time it occurs is generated by a pseudo-random number generator.
* A Field Device Worm - The adversary may choose to identify all field devices of the same model, with the end goal of performing a device-wide compromise.
* Attack Other Cards on the Field Device - Although it is not the most important module in a field device, the Ethernet card is most accessible to the adversary and malware. Compromise of the Ethernet card may provide a more direct route to compromising other modules, such as the CPU module.

### Mitigations

- [Access Management](/mitigations/M0801/) (`M0801`)
- [Communication Authenticity](/mitigations/M0802/) (`M0802`)
- [Human User Authentication](/mitigations/M0804/) (`M0804`)
- [Network Allowlists](/mitigations/M0807/) (`M0807`)
- [Encrypt Network Traffic](/mitigations/M0808/) (`M0808`)
- [Software Process and Device Authentication](/mitigations/M0813/) (`M0813`)
- [Network Segmentation](/mitigations/M0930/) (`M0930`)
- [Filter Network Traffic](/mitigations/M0937/) (`M0937`)
- [Encrypt Sensitive Information](/mitigations/M0941/) (`M0941`)
- [Code Signing](/mitigations/M0945/) (`M0945`)
- [Boot Integrity](/mitigations/M0946/) (`M0946`)
- [Audit](/mitigations/M0947/) (`M0947`)


---

*© The MITRE Corporation. This work is reproduced and distributed with the permission of The MITRE Corporation.*
